INTRODUCTION AND METHODOLOGY
Introduction and Methodology: 
Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026
Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S1–S5 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SINT
American Diabetes Association Professional 
Practice Committee for Diabetes*
The “Standards of Care in Diabetes,” formerly called “Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes,” was originally approved in 1988 and published in 1989. 
The most recent full review and revision was in December 2025.
*A complete list of members of the American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes is provided in this section.
Duality of interest information for each contributor is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.
Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. Introduction and methodology: Standards of Care in 
Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S1–S5
© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this work for educational, noncommercial purposes if properly cited and unaltered. The version of 
record may be linked at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA permission is required to post this work on any third-party site or platform. This publication and 
its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or used for text or data mining, machine learning, or similar technologies without prior written permission. 
Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes.org. More information is available at https://diabetesjournals 
.org/journals/pages/license.
Diabetes is a complex, chronic condition 
requiring continuous care with compre-
hensive risk-reduction strategies beyond 
glycemic management. Ongoing diabe-
tes self-management education and 
support are critical to empowering peo-
ple, preventing acute complications, and 
reducing the risk of long-term complica-
tions. Significant evidence exists that 
supports a range of interventions to im-
prove diabetes outcomes.
The American Diabetes Association 
(ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes,” 
referred to here as the Standards of Care, 
serves as a comprehensive resource to 
clinicians, researchers, policymakers, and 
other stakeholders. It outlines key elements 
of diabetes care, sets treatment goals, and 
provides tools to assess care quality, all di-
rected at improving diabetes care and out-
comes across diverse populations.
The ADA Professional Practice Com-
mittee for Diabetes (PPC) updates the 
Standards of Care annually. Discussion 
of emerging clinical considerations is in-
cluded in the text, and, as evidence 
evolves, clinical guidance is updated within 
the recommendations. The Standards of 
Care is a “living” document where impor-
tant updates are published online should 
the PPC determine that new evidence or 
regulatory changes (e.g., medication or 
technology approvals, label changes) merit 
immediate inclusion. More information on 
the living standards can be found on the 
ADA professional website Diabetes Pro 
at professional.diabetes.org/standards 
-of-care/living-standards-update. The
Standards of Care supersedes all previously 
published ADA scientific documents—and 
the guidance therein—on clinical topics 
within the purview of the Standards of 
Care.
The Standards of Care is internally re-
viewed by the ADA Medical Affairs sci-
entific team for methodological rigor, 
accuracy, clarity, and implementation; 
the Standards of Care then undergoes 
external peer review, ADA leadership 
review, and ADA Board of Directors 
review and approval.
SCOPE OF THE GUIDELINES
The recommendations in the Standards 
of Care include screening, diagnostic, 
and therapeutic actions that are scientifi-
cally proved or known based on expert 
clinical practice or believed to favorably 
affect health outcomes of people with 
diabetes. They also cover the prevention, 
screening, diagnosis, and management 
of diabetes-associated complications and 
comorbidities. The recommendations en-
compass care throughout the life span 
for children (aged birth to 11 years), ado-
lescents (aged 12–17 years), adults (aged 
18–64 years), and older adults (aged 
≥65 years). The recommendations cover 
the management of type 1 diabetes, type 2 
diabetes, gestational diabetes mellitus, 
and other types of diabetes and/or hy-
perglycemic conditions.
The Standards of Care does not pro-
vide comprehensive treatment plans for 
complications associated with diabetes, 
such as diabetic retinopathy or diabetic 
foot ulcers, but offers guidance on how 
and when to screen for diabetes compli-
cations, management of complications 
in the primary care and diabetes care 
settings, and referral to specialists as 
appropriate. Similarly, regarding the 
psychosocial and behavioral health 
factors often associated with diabetes 
and that can affect diabetes care, the 
Standards of Care provides guidance 
on how and when to screen, manage-
ment in the primary care and diabetes 
care settings, and referral but does not 
provide comprehensive management plans 
for conditions that require specialized care, 
such as mental illness.
INTENDED AUDIENCE
The intended audience for the Standards 
of Care includes primary care physicians, 
endocrinologists, nurse practitioners, phy-
sician associates/assistants, pharmacists, 
registered dietitian nutritionists, diabetes 
care and education specialists, and all 
members of the diabetes care team. The 
Standards of Care also provides guidance 
to specialists caring for people with diabe-
tes and its multitude of complications, 
such as cardiologists, gastroenterologists, 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026
S1
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S1/848826/dc26sint.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

nephrologists, emergency physicians, in-
ternists, pediatricians, psychologists, neurol-
ogists, ophthalmologists, and podiatrists. 
Additionally, these recommendations help 
payors, policymakers, researchers, research 
funding organizations, and advocacy groups 
align their policies and resources and deliver 
optimal care for people living with diabetes. 
A consumer-facing plain language summary 
of the Standards of Care for people with dia-
betes can be found at diabetesjournals.org/ 
clinical/article/43/3/335/160650/Your-Rights- 
and-Care-Standards-A-Guide-for-People.
The ADA strives to improve and update 
the Standards of Care to ensure that clini-
cians, health plans, and policymakers can 
continue to rely on it as the most authori-
tative source for current guidelines for 
diabetes care. The Standards of Care 
recommendations are not intended to 
preclude clinical judgment. They must 
be applied in the setting and context of 
excellent clinical care, with adjustments for 
individual preferences, comorbidities, and 
other person-specific factors. For more de-
tailed information about the management 
of diabetes, please refer to Medical Man-
agement of Type 1 Diabetes (1) and Medi-
cal Management of Type 2 Diabetes (2).
METHODOLOGY AND PROCEDURE
The Standards of Care includes discussion 
of evidence and clinical practice recom-
mendations intended to optimize care for 
people with diabetes by assisting health 
care professionals and individuals in mak-
ing shared decisions about diabetes care. 
These recommendations are based on a 
comprehensive evaluation of the available 
evidence, along with a careful assessment 
of the benefits and risks associated with 
different care strategies.
Professional Practice Committee for 
Diabetes
The diabetes PPC of the ADA is responsi-
ble for the Standards of Care content. 
The PPC is an interprofessional expert 
committee comprising physicians, nurse 
practitioners, pharmacists, diabetes care 
and education specialists, registered die-
titian nutritionists, behavioral health sci-
entists, and others who have expertise in 
a range of areas including but not limited to 
adult and pediatric endocrinology, epidemi-
ology, public health, behavioral health, car-
diovascular risk management, microvascular 
complications, nephrology, neurology, oph-
thalmology, podiatry, clinical pharmacology, 
preconception and pregnancy care, weight 
management and obesity treatment, diabe-
tes prevention, and use of technology 
in diabetes management. Each year, 
ADA conducts a national call for applications 
to recruit members of the PPC. Appoint-
ment to the PPC is based on excellence in 
clinical practice and research, with attention 
to appropriate representation of members 
based on considerations including but not 
limited to demographic, geographic, work 
setting, or identity characteristics (e.g., gen-
der, race and ethnicity, ability level). A PPC 
chair or co-chairs are appointed by the ADA 
(M.B. and R.G.M. are co-chairs for the 2026 
Standards of Care) and oversee the com-
mittee. In addition to the PPC members, 
several professionals serve as designated 
subject matter experts to support the PPC 
in the development of specific content 
areas of the Standards of Care. While des-
ignated subject matter experts assist with 
content development, only PPC members 
formally vote on Standards of Care recom-
mendations for final approval.
Additionally, several organizations have 
endorsed specific sections of the 2026 
Standards of Care. The American Society for 
Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR) re-
viewed and approved the “Bone Health” 
subsection in section 4, “Comprehensive 
Medical Evaluation and Assessment of 
Comorbidities.” The Obesity Society (TOS) 
reviewed and approved section 8, “Obesity 
and Weight Management for the Preven- 
tion and Treatment of Diabetes.” The Amer-
ican College of Cardiology (ACC) reviewed 
and approved section 10, “Cardiovascular 
Disease and Risk Management.” The 
American Geriatrics Society (AGS) re-
viewed and approved section 13, “Older 
Adults.” New to the 2026 Standards of 
Care, the National Kidney Foundation 
(NKF) reviewed and approved section 11, 
“Chronic Kidney Disease and Risk Manage- 
ment,” and the International Society 
for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes 
(ISPAD) reviewed and approved section 14, 
“Children and Adolescents.”
Each section of the Standards of Care is 
reviewed annually and updated with the 
latest evidence-based recommendations 
by a subcommittee. The subcommittees 
perform systematic literature reviews to 
identify and summarize the latest scien-
tific evidence. An information specialist 
with knowledge and experience in litera-
ture searching (a librarian) is consulted 
as necessary. A guideline methodologist 
(R.R.B. for the 2026 Standards of Care) 
with expertise and training in evidence-based 
medicine and guideline development meth-
odology oversees all methodological aspects 
of the development of the Standards of Care 
and serves as a statistical analyst.
Disclosure and Duality of Interest 
Management
All members of the PPC, subject matter 
experts, and the ADA scientific team are 
required to comply with the ADA policy 
on duality of interest, which requires dis-
closure of any financial, intellectual, or 
other interests that might be construed as 
constituting an actual, potential, or appar-
ent conflict, regardless of relevancy to the 
guideline topic. For transparency, ADA re-
quires full disclosure of all relationships. 
Full disclosure statements from all com-
mittee members are solicited and re-
viewed during the appointment process. 
Disclosures are then updated throughout 
the guideline development process (spe-
cifically before the start of every meeting), 
and disclosure statements are submitted 
by every Standards of Care contributor 
upon submission of the updated Stand-
ards of Care section. Members are re-
quired to disclose conflicts for a time 
frame that includes 1 year prior to initi-
ation of the committee appointment 
process until publication of that year’s 
Standards of Care. Potential dualities 
of interest are evaluated by a panel of 
experts and, if necessary, the Legal Af-
fairs Division of the ADA. The duality of 
interest assessment is based on the rel-
ative weight of the financial relation-
ship (i.e., the monetary amount) and 
the relevance of the relationship (i.e., 
the degree to which an independent 
observer might reasonably interpret an 
association as related to the topic or 
recommendation of consideration). In 
addition, the ADA adheres to section 7 of 
the Council of Medical Specialty Societies 
“Code for Interactions with Companies” 
(3). The ADA also ensures the majority of 
the PPC and the PPC chair or co-chairs are 
without potential conflict relevant to the 
subject area. Furthermore, the PPC chair 
or co-chairs are required to remain un-
conflicted for 1 year after the publication 
of the Standards of Care. Members of the 
committee who disclose a potential dual-
ity of interest pertinent to any specific rec-
ommendation are prohibited from voting 
or their votes are excluded. No PPC mem-
bers or subject matter experts were em-
ployees of any pharmaceutical or medical 
S2 
Introduction and Methodology                                                                          
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S1/848826/dc26sint.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

device company during the development 
of the 2026 Standards of Care. Members 
of the PPC and subject matter experts, 
their employers, and their disclosed po-
tential dualities of interest are listed in the 
section “Disclosures: Standards of Care in 
Diabetes—2026.”
Funding Source
The Standards of Care guideline is funded 
by ADA general revenue. No other entity, in-
cluding industry, provides financial support 
for the guideline. Committee members re-
ceived no remuneration for their participa-
tion in the development of this guideline.
Evidence Review
The Standards of Care subcommittee for 
each section creates an initial list of rele-
vant clinical questions that is reviewed 
and discussed by the PPC. In consultation 
with a systematic review expert and li-
brarian, each subcommittee devises and 
executes systematic literature searches. 
For the 2026 Standards of Care, PubMed, 
Medline, and EMBASE were searched for 
the time periods of 1 June 2024 to 18 July 
2025. Searches are limited to studies pub-
lished in English. Subcommittee members 
also manually search journals, reference 
lists of conference proceedings, and reg-
ulatory agency websites. All potentially 
relevant citations are then subjected to 
a full-text review. In consultation with 
the methodologist, the subcommittees pre-
pare the evidence summaries and grading 
for each section of the Standards of Care. 
All PPC members discuss and review the 
evidence summaries and make revisions as 
appropriate. The final evidence summaries 
are then deliberated on by the PPC, and 
the recommendations that will appear in 
the Standards of Care are drafted.
Grading of Evidence and 
Recommendation Development
A grading system (Table 1) developed 
by the ADA and modeled after existing 
methods is used to clarify and codify 
the evidence that forms the basis for 
the recommendations in the Standards 
of Care. All recommendations in the 
Standards of Care are critical to compre-
hensive care regardless of rating. ADA 
recommendations are assigned ratings 
of A, B, or C, depending on the quality 
of the evidence in support of the recom-
mendation. Expert opinion E is a separate 
category for recommendations for which 
there is no evidence from clinical trials, 
clinical trials may be impractical, or there 
is conflicting evidence. Recommendations 
assigned an E level of evidence are in-
formed by key opinion leaders in diabe-
tes (members of the PPC and subject 
matter experts) and cover important ele-
ments of clinical care. All Standards of 
Care recommendations receive a rating 
for the strength of the evidence and not 
for the strength of the recommendation. 
Recommendations with A-level evidence 
are based on large, well-designed ran-
domized controlled trials or well-done 
meta-analyses of randomized controlled 
trials. Generally, these recommendations 
have the best chance of improving out-
comes when applied to the population 
for which they are appropriate. Recom-
mendations with lower levels of evidence 
may be equally important but are not as 
well supported by the evidence.
Table 1—ADA evidence-grading system for “Standards of Care in Diabetes”
Level of  
evidence
Description
A
Clear evidence from well-conducted, generalizable randomized controlled trials 
that are adequately powered, including: 
• Evidence from a well-conducted multicenter trial 
• Evidence from a meta-analysis that incorporated quality ratings in the 
analysis 
Supportive evidence from well-conducted randomized controlled trials that are  
adequately powered, including: 
• Evidence from a well-conducted multicenter trial 
• Evidence from a meta-analysis that incorporated quality ratings in the 
analysis 
B
Evidence from randomized controlled trials with an identified flaw that may 
limit validity of the results  
Supportive evidence from well-conducted cohort studies, including: 
• Evidence from a well-conducted prospective cohort study or registry 
• Evidence from a well-conducted meta-analysis of cohort studies 
Supportive evidence from a well-conducted case-control study 
C
Supportive evidence from poorly controlled or uncontrolled studies, including: 
• Evidence from randomized clinical trials with one or more major or 
three or more minor methodological flaws that could invalidate the 
results 
• Evidence from observational studies with high potential for bias (such as 
case series with comparison with historical controls) 
• Evidence from case series or case reports 
Conflicting evidence with the weight of evidence supporting the  
recommendation 
E
Expert consensus or clinical experience
Of course, published evidence is only 
one component of clinical decision-making. 
Clinicians care for people, not populations; 
guidelines must always be interpreted with 
the individual person in mind. Individual 
circumstances, such as comorbid and coex-
isting diseases, age, education, disability, 
and, above all, the values and preferences 
of the person with diabetes, must be con-
sidered and may lead to different treat-
ment goals and strategies. Furthermore, 
conventional evidence hierarchies, such as 
the one adapted by the ADA, may miss nu-
ances important in diabetes care. For exam-
ple, although there is excellent evidence 
from clinical trials supporting the impor-
tance of achieving multiple risk factor con-
trol, the optimal way to achieve this result 
is less clear. It is difficult to assess each com-
ponent of such a complex intervention.
Evidence to Recommendations
All accumulated evidence was reviewed 
and discussed by all PPC members and sub-
ject matter experts during multiple virtual 
meetings and a 2-day in-person meeting in 
Arlington, Virginia, in July 2025. Standards 
of Care recommendations were updated 
based on the newly acquired evidence, and 
each recommendation was voted on by 
the PPC, with 80% consensus required for 
any recommendation to be approved.
Revision Process
Public comment is particularly important 
in the development of clinical practice 
recommendations; it promotes trans-
parency and provides key stakeholders, 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                 
Introduction and Methodology
S3 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S1/848826/dc26sint.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

including people with diabetes and their 
caregivers, the opportunity to identify 
and address gaps in care. The ADA holds 
a year-long public comment period re-
questing feedback on the Standards of 
Care. The PPC reviews all compiled 
feedback from the public in prepara-
tion for the annual update but consid-
ers more pressing updates throughout 
the year, which may be published as liv-
ing standards updates. Feedback from 
the larger clinical community and gen-
eral public was invaluable for the revi-
sion of the 2025 Standards of Care. 
Readers who wish to comment on the 
2026 Standards of Care are invited to do 
so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.
Feedback for the Standards of Care 
is also obtained from external peer re-
viewers and from the aforementioned 
endorsing societies (ACC, AGS, ASBMR, 
ISPAD, NKF, and TOS). The Standards of 
Care is reviewed by the ADA Medical 
Affairs scientific team for methodological 
rigor, accuracy, clarity, and implementa-
tion; the Standards of Care then under-
goes external peer review, ADA leadership 
review, and ADA Board of Directors review 
and approval (this includes review by 
health care professionals, scientists, and 
other stakeholders). Feedback received 
from every stakeholder is adequately 
addressed by the committee, and the 
final version is approved by all parties 
prior to publication. The ADA adheres 
to the Council of Medical Specialty So-
cieties revised “CMSS Principles for the 
Development of Specialty Society Clini-
cal Guidelines” (4).
ADA GUIDANCE CATEGORIES
The ADA has been actively involved in de-
veloping and disseminating diabetes care 
clinical practice recommendations and re-
lated documents for more than 35 years. 
The ADA Standards of Care is an essential 
resource for health care professionals car-
ing for people with diabetes. ADA State-
ments, Consensus Reports, and Scientific 
Reviews support the recommendations 
included in the Standards of Care.
Standards of Care
The annual Standards of Care supplement 
to the Diabetes Care journal contains the 
official ADA position, is authored by the 
ADA under the guidance of the PPC, and 
provides all the ADA’s current clinical prac-
tice recommendations.
Consensus Report
An ADA consensus report is a document 
on a particular topic that is authored by a 
technical expert panel under the auspices 
of ADA. The document does not reflect 
the official ADA position but rather repre-
sents the panel’s collective analysis, evalu-
ation, and expert opinion. The primary 
objective of a consensus report is to pro-
vide clarity and insight on a medical or sci-
entific matter related to diabetes for which 
the evidence is contradictory, emerging, or 
incomplete. The report also aims to high-
light evidence gaps and to propose avenues 
for future research. Consensus reports 
undergo a formal review process, in-
cluding external peer review and re-
view by the ADA PPC and ADA scientific 
team, for publication.
When participating in a joint consen-
sus report, ADA, in collaboration with 
the partner organization, designates rep-
resentatives who will be involved in all 
phases of consensus report development 
(i.e., from initiation through publication). 
Similar to an ADA consensus report, the 
joint consensus report is intended to 
highlight an emerging area in diabetes 
care, follows the same rigorous review 
procedures, and does not reflect the offi-
cial ADA position.
Scientific Review
A scientific review is a balanced system-
atic review and analysis of literature on a 
scientific or medical topic related to dia-
betes. A scientific review is not an ADA 
position and does not contain clinical 
practice recommendations but is pro-
duced under the auspices of the ADA by 
invited experts. The scientific review may 
provide a scientific rationale for clinical 
practice recommendations in the Standards 
of Care. The category may also include task 
force and expert committee reports.
ADA Statement
An ADA statement is an ADA point of view 
or position that does not contain clinical 
practice recommendations and may be is-
sued on advocacy, policy, economic, or 
medical issues related to diabetes. ADA 
statements undergo a formal review 
process, including external peer review 
and review by the ADA Professional 
Practice Committee for Diabetes, ADA 
clinical leadership, ADA scientific team, 
and, as warranted, the ADA Board of 
Directors.
ADA ENDORSEMENT PROCESS
Endorsement by ADA signifies formal 
support for a scientific document, such 
as a clinical guideline or consensus re-
port. The endorsement process involves 
a thorough review by the PPC for align-
ment with ADA’s mission, the Standards 
of Care, and evidence-based principles. The 
endorsement indicates that the content is 
scientifically accurate, relevant, and valu-
able to health care professionals caring for 
people with diabetes. While endorsement 
conveys support for the scientific concepts, 
it may not extend to every specific state-
ment or phrasing. Although ADA represen-
tatives are generally involved throughout 
the development of these documents, 
ADA endorsement does not reflect the of-
ficial ADA position. The type and level of 
ADA endorsement may vary based on the 
type of document and the extent of ADA 
involvement in the development process.
Members of the PPC
Mandeep Bajaj, MBBS, FRCP (Co-Chair)
Rozalina G. McCoy, MD, MS (Co-Chair)
Natalie J. Bellini, DNP
Elizabeth A. Beverly, PhD
Kathaleen Briggs Early, PhD, CDCES
Justin B. Echouffo-Tcheugui, MD, PhD
Nuha Ali ElSayed, MD, MMSc
Brendan M. Everett, MD, MPH
Rajesh Garg, MD
Lori M. Laffel, MD, MPH
Rayhan Lal, MD
Glenn Matfin, MB ChB, MSc (Oxon)
Naushira Pandya, MD, FACP
Anne L. Peters, MD
Scott J. Pilla, MD, MHS
Giulio R. Romeo, MD
Sylvia E. Rosas, MD, MSCE
Alissa R. Segal, PharmD, CDCES
Emily D. Szmuilowicz, MD, MS
Raveendhara R. Bannuru, MD, PhD (Chief   
Methodologist)
Designated Subject Matter Experts
Florence M. Brown, MD
Brian C. Callaghan, MD, MS
Sandeep R. Das, MD, MPH
Dave L. Dixon, PharmD, FACC
Andjela Drincic, MD
Osagie Ebekozien, MD, MPH
Robert G. Frykberg, DPM, MPH
Sunir J. Garg, MD, FACS
Mohamed Hassanein, CCST (U.K.), FRCP
Brynn E. Marks, MD, MSHPEd
Lisa Murdock
S4 
Introduction and Methodology                                                                          
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S1/848826/dc26sint.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Nicola Napoli, MD, PhD
Aaron B. Nelson, MD
Archana R. Sadhu, MD, FACE
Arun J. Sanyal, MD
Alpana P. Shukla, MD, FTOS
Kimber M. Simmons, MD, MS
Shylaja Srinivasan, MD
Molly L. Tanenbaum, PhD
Crystal C. Woodward, MPS
ADA Scientific Team
Kirthikaa Balapattabi, PhD
Raveendhara R. Bannuru, MD, PhD  
(corresponding author, rbannuru@diabetes.org)
Allison K. Bennett, PhD
Sathyavathi ChallaSivaKanaka, PhD
Nuha Ali ElSayed, MD, MMSc (until 14 November   
2025)
Rita Rastogi Kalyani, MD, MHS (starting 11 August  
2025)
Elizabeth J. Pekas, PhD
Acknowledgments
The ADA thanks the following external peer   
reviewers:
Alyce S. Adams, PhD, MPP
Ron A. Adelman, MD, MPH
Shivani Agarwal, MD, MPH
Halis K. Akturk, MD
Martine Altieri, PA-C
Joan K. Bardsley, RN, CDCES
Ian H. de Boer, MD, MS
John D. Bucheit, PharmD, AACC
Kenneth Cusi, MD
Samuel Dagogo-Jack, MD, DSc
Ketan Dhatariya, MD, PhD
Linda A. DiMeglio, MD, MPH
Aoife M. Egan, MB, BCh
Lawrence Fisher, PhD, ABPP
Vera Fridman, MD
Jason L. Gaglia, MD, MMSc
Om Ganda, MD
Sherita Hill Golden, MD
James L. Januzzi Jr., MD, FACC
Sangeeta R. Kashyap, MD
Sylvia Kehlenbrink, MD
Mary Korytkowski, MD
Richard J. Kovacs, MD, MACC
Csaba P. Kovesdy, MD
Kristina Henderson Lewis, MD, MPH
Kasia Lipska, MD, MHS
Rebecca Rick Longo, DNP, ACNP-BC
Farid H. Mahmud, MD
Steven K. Malin, PhD, FACSM
Yeray Nóvoa, MD, PhD
Mary-Elizabeth Patti, MD
Monica E. Peek, MD, MPH
Danny Phan, DPM, MBA
Marcus Vinicius R. Pinto, MD, MS
Sarit Polsky, MD, MPH
Leena Priyambada, MBBS, MD
Jane E.B. Reusch, MD
Connie M. Rhee, MD, MSc
Mary K. Rhee, MD, MSCR
Christine Schumacher, PharmD, BCPS
Jane Jeffrie Seley, DNP, MPH
Viral N. Shah, MD
Richard D. Siegel, MD
Carmel Smart, APD, PhD
Holly J. Willis, PhD, RDN
Clipper F. Young, PharmD, MPH
The ADA thanks the ADA Presidents and  
Presidents-elect:
A. Enrique Caballero, MD, President, Medicine  
& Science (starting 11 August 2025; President-  
elect prior)
Joshua J. Neumiller, PharmD, CDCES,  
President, Heath Care & Education
Rita Rastogi Kalyani, MD, MHS, President,  
Medicine & Science, until 10 August 2025
Amy Hess-Fischl, MS, RDN, President-elect,  
Heath Care & Education
The ADA thanks the following individuals for  
their support:
Lloyd Paul Aiello, MD, PhD
Marian Rewers, MD, PhD
Kartik Venkatesh, MD, PhD
The ADA thanks the following individual for  
their administrative assistance:
Alexandra M. Yacoubian
The ADA thanks the following individuals for  
figure design:
Michael Bonar
Charlie Franklin
References
1. American Diabetes Association. Medical 
Management of Type 1 Diabetes. 8th ed. Kirkman 
MS, Ed. Arlington, VA, American Diabetes 
Association, 2022
2. American Diabetes Association. Medical Man- 
agement of Type 2 Diabetes. 8th ed. Meneghini L, 
Ed. Arlington, VA, American Diabetes Association, 
2020
3. Council of Medical Specialty Societies. 
CMSS code for interactions with companies. 
Accessed 2 August 2025. Available from 
https://cmss.org/code-for-interactions-with- 
companies/
4. Council for Medical Specialty Societies. CMSS 
principles for the development of specialty 
society clinical guidelines. Accessed 2 August 
2025. Available from https://cmss.org/wp- 
content/uploads/2017/11/Revised-CMSS-Principles- 
for-Clinical-Practice-Guideline-Development 
.pdf
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                 
Introduction and Methodology
S5 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S1/848826/dc26sint.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026
