10. CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
10. Cardiovascular Disease and
Risk Management: Standards of
Care in Diabetes—2026
Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S216–S245 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S010
American Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee for 
Diabetes*
*A complete list of members of the American 
Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee 
for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/ 
10.2337/dc26-SINT.
This section has received endorsement from the 
American College of Cardiology.
Duality of interest information for each contributor 
is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.
Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 10. 
Cardiovascular disease and risk management: 
Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes 
Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S216–S245
© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. 
Readers may use this work for educational, 
noncommercial purposes if properly cited and 
unaltered. The version of record may be linked 
at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA 
permission is required to post this work on any 
third-party site or platform. This publication and its 
contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or 
used for text or data mining, machine learning, 
or similar technologies without prior written 
permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute 
this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes 
.org. More information is available at https:// 
diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes the 
ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the compo-
nents of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to evaluate 
quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes, an 
interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the Standards of Care 
annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed description of ADA standards, 
statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical prac-
tice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice Committee members, 
please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the 
Standards of Care are invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.
For prevention and management of diabetes complications in children and adoles-
cents, please refer to section 14, “Children and Adolescents.” 
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a broad term that includes atherosclerotic cardiovas-
cular disease (ASCVD) and heart failure, two CVDs common among people with dia-
betes. ASCVD broadly refers to a history of acute coronary syndrome, myocardial 
infarction (MI), stable or unstable angina or coronary or other arterial revasculariza-
tion, stroke, or peripheral artery disease (PAD) including aortic aneurysm and is the 
leading cause of morbidity and mortality in people with diabetes (1). Diabetes itself 
confers independent ASCVD risk, and among people with diabetes, all major cardio-
vascular risk factors, including hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and obesity, are clustered 
and common (2). Numerous studies have shown the efficacy of managing individual 
cardiovascular risk factors in preventing or slowing ASCVD in people with diabetes. 
Furthermore, large benefits are seen when multiple cardiovascular risk factors (glyce-
mic, blood pressure, and lipid management) are addressed simultaneously, with evi-
dence for long-lasting benefits (3–5). Notably, most of the evidence supporting 
interventions to reduce cardiovascular risk in diabetes comes from trials of people 
with type 2 diabetes. No randomized trials have been specifically designed to assess 
the impact of cardiovascular risk reduction strategies in people with type 1 diabetes. 
Therefore, the recommendations for cardiovascular risk factor modification for people 
with type 1 diabetes are extrapolated from data obtained in people with type 2 dia-
betes and are similar to those for people with type 2 diabetes.
Under the current paradigm of comprehensive risk factor modification, cardio-
vascular morbidity and mortality have notably decreased in people with both type 1 
and type 2 diabetes (1). Indeed, when all major cardiovascular risk factors are 
treated to within the target ranges, people with type 2 diabetes have risk of death, 
MI, or stroke similar to that of the general population (6). Despite these encourag-
ing opportunities to reduce morbidity and mortality, only a minority of people with 
S216
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

type 2 diabetes achieve recommended 
risk factor goals and are treated with 
guideline-recommended therapy (7–9). 
Therefore, continued focus on deliver-
ing high-quality comprehensive cardio-
vascular care and on addressing barriers 
to risk factor management are required 
to implement the treatment recommen-
dations (1,10) outlined in this section.
CVD also includes heart failure, and 
diabetes is a risk factor for incident 
heart failure, which is at least twofold 
more prevalent in people with diabetes 
compared with those without diabetes 
and is a major cause of morbidity and 
mortality (11). People with diabetes may 
present with a wide spectrum of heart 
failure, including heart failure with pre-
served ejection fraction (HFpEF), heart 
failure with mildly reduced ejection frac-
tion (HFmrEF), or heart failure with re-
duced ejection fraction (HFrEF) (12,13). 
Comorbid conditions including overweight 
and obesity and hypertension often pre-
cede the development of HFpEF and have 
been implicated in the pathophysiology of 
HFpEF (14). Coronary artery disease is a 
major risk factor and a cause of myocar-
dial injury in ischemic heart disease leading 
to HFrEF. In addition, people with diabetes 
are at risk for developing structural heart 
disease and HFrEF in the absence of ob-
structive coronary artery disease (15). The 
pathophysiology of heart failure in people 
with diabetes and further details of screen-
ing, diagnosis, and treatment of people with 
heart failure and diabetes are also outlined 
in a previous consensus statement by the 
American Diabetes Association (ADA) (16).
There is an increasing appreciation of 
the common pathophysiology and interre-
lationship of cardiometabolic risk factors 
leading to both adverse cardiovascular and 
adverse kidney outcomes in people with di-
abetes, including ASCVD, heart failure, and 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) (17,18). These 
three comorbidities are frequently caused 
by metabolic risk, which is frequently driven 
by obesity and its associated risk factors, 
and the incidence of all three conditions 
rises with increasing A1C levels (19). Collec-
tively, this combination of comorbidities 
has been termed cardiorenal metabolic 
disease or cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic 
health (20–22). Reasons to concurrently 
consider cardiovascular and kidney comor-
bidities in the management of people with 
diabetes include not only the common 
metabolic risk but also the major benefit 
observed across the spectrum of CVD, 
heart failure, and kidney outcomes in 
people with type 2 diabetes treated with 
sodium–glucose cotransporter (SGLT) in-
hibitors or glucagon-like peptide 1 recep-
tor agonists (GLP-1 RAs). Therefore, in 
addition to the management of hyper-
glycemia, hypertension, and hyperlipid-
emia, treatment with SGLT inhibitors 
and/or GLP-1 RAs that have demon-
strated cardiovascular and kidney bene-
fit is considered a fundamental element 
of risk reduction and a core pharmaco-
logical strategy to improve cardiovascu-
lar and kidney outcomes in people with 
type 2 diabetes (Fig. 10.1). In addition to 
the standards of care for the prevention 
and treatment of CVD outlined below, 
the reader is referred to section 9, 
“Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic 
Treatment,” and section 11, “Chronic 
Kidney Disease and Risk Management,” for 
a comprehensive review of pharmacologi-
cal management of hyperglycemia and kid-
ney benefit from SGLT2 inhibitors, SGLT1/2 
inhibitors, and GLP-1 RAs.
HYPERTENSION AND BLOOD 
PRESSURE MANAGEMENT
An elevated blood pressure is defined as a 
systolic blood pressure 120–129 mmHg 
with a diastolic blood pressure <80 mmHg 
(23). Hypertension is defined as a systolic 
blood pressure ≥130 mmHg or a diastolic 
blood pressure ≥80 mmHg (23). This is in 
agreement with the definition of hyperten-
sion by the American College of Cardiology 
and American Heart Association (23). Hy-
pertension is common among people with 
type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Hypertension is 
a major risk factor for ASCVD, heart failure, 
and microvascular complications. More-
over, numerous studies have shown that 
antihypertensive therapy reduces ASCVD 
events, heart failure, and microvascular 
complications. Please refer to the ADA 
position statement “Diabetes and Hyper-
tension” for a detailed review of the epi-
demiology, diagnosis, and treatment 
of hypertension (24) and hypertension 
guideline recommendations (25–28). For 
blood pressure goals and management 
in individuals with diabetes who are 
pregnant, see section 15, “Management 
of Diabetes in Pregnancy” for details.
Screening and Diagnosis
Recommendations
10.1 Blood pressure should be mea-
sured at every routine clinical visit, or at 
least every 6 months. Individuals found 
to have elevated blood pressure with-
out a diagnosis of hypertension (systolic 
blood pressure 120–129 mmHg and 
diastolic blood pressure <80 mmHg) 
should have blood pressure confirmed 
using multiple readings, including meas-
urements on a separate day, to diag-
nose hypertension. A Hypertension is 
defined as a systolic blood pressure 
≥130 mmHg or a diastolic blood pres-
sure ≥80 mmHg based on an average 
of two or more measurements obtained 
on two or more occasions. A Individuals 
with blood pressure ≥180/110 mmHg 
and cardiovascular disease could be di-
agnosed with hypertension at a single 
visit. E
10.2 Counsel all people with hyper-
tension and diabetes to monitor their 
blood pressure at home after appro-
priate education. A
Blood pressure should be measured at 
every routine clinical visit or at least ev-
ery 6 months by a trained individual who 
should follow the guidelines established 
for the general population: measurement 
in the seated position, with feet on the 
floor and arm supported at heart level, 
after 5 min of rest. Cuff size should be 
appropriate for the upper-arm circum-
ference (29). Individuals identified to 
have elevated blood pressure or hy-
pertension should have blood pressure 
confirmed using multiple readings, in-
cluding measurements on a separate 
day, to diagnose hypertension. How-
ever, in individuals with CVD and blood 
pressure ≥180/110 mmHg, it is reason-
able to diagnose hypertension at a sin-
gle visit (25). Postural changes in blood 
pressure and pulse may be evidence of 
autonomic neuropathy and therefore re-
quire adjustment of blood pressure goals. 
Lying, sitting, and standing blood pres-
sure measurements should be checked 
on initial visit and as indicated.
Home blood pressure self-monitoring 
and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure mon-
itoring may provide evidence of white 
coat hypertension, masked hypertension, 
or other discrepancies between office and 
true blood pressure (30,31). In addition 
to confirming or refuting a diagnosis of 
hypertension, home blood pressure as-
sessment may be useful to monitor anti-
hypertensive treatment. A systematic 
review and meta-analysis of prospective 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S217 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

studies concluded that blood pressure 
measurements from either 24-h ambula-
tory or home blood pressure measure-
ments can predict cardiovascular risk 
(30–32). Moreover, home blood pres-
sure monitoring may improve medica-
tion-taking behavior and thus help reduce 
cardiovascular risk (33).
Treatment Goals
Recommendations
10.3 For people with diabetes and hy-
pertension, blood pressure goals should 
be individualized through a shared 
decision-making process that addresses 
cardiovascular risk, potential adverse 
effects of antihypertensive medica-
tions, and individual preferences. B
10.4 If it can be safely attained, the 
on-treatment blood pressure goal is 
<130/80 mmHg; a systolic blood 
pressure goal <120 mmHg should 
be encouraged in individuals with 
high cardiovascular or kidney risk. A
Randomized clinical trials have demon-
strated unequivocally that treatment of hy-
pertension reduces cardiovascular events 
as well as microvascular complications 
(34–40). There has been controversy on 
the recommendation of a specific blood 
pressure goal in people with diabetes. The 
recommendation to support a blood pres-
sure goal of <130/80 mmHg in people 
with diabetes is consistent with guidelines 
from the American College of Cardiology 
and American Heart Association (24), the 
International Society of Hypertension, and 
the European Society of Cardiology/ 
European Society of Hypertension Blood 
Pressure/Hypertension Guidelines (26). 
Participants with diabetes comprised 
nearly 20% of the Strategy of Blood 
Pressure Intervention in the Elderly Hy-
pertensive Patients (STEP) trial, which 
noted decreased cardiovascular events 
with treatment of hypertension to a 
systolic blood pressure goal of <130 
mmHg (41). A systolic blood pressure goal 
of <120 mmHg is encouraged in those 
individuals with high cardiovascular or kid-
ney risk because of the results of Blood 
Pressure Control Target in Diabetes 
(BPROAD) and the Effects of Intensive Sys-
tolic Blood Pressure Lowering Treatment in 
Reducing Risk of Vascular Events (ESPRIT) 
trials. BPROAD was an open-label trial that 
randomized individuals with diabetes and 
elevated CVD risk to an intensive systolic 
blood pressure goal of <120 mmHg and 
noted a 21% reduction in nonfatal stroke, 
nonfatal MI, heart failure, or cardiovascular 
death compared with the group receiving 
standard systolic blood pressure goal of 
<140 mmHg (42). ESPRIT also compared 
an intensive systolic blood pressure goal 
of <120 mmHg to a standard goal of 
<140 mmHg in individuals with diabetes 
(39%), prior stroke, or elevated cardiovas-
cular risk. ESPRIT noted a significant 12% 
reduction in the primary outcome, a com-
posite of MI, revascularization, hospi-
talization for heart failure, stroke, or 
cardiovascular death (43). The results 
of BPROAD and ESPRIT are supported 
LIFESTYLE MODIFICATION 
AND DIABETES EDUCATION
Glycemic 
management
Blood pressure 
management
Lipid 
management
Agents with 
cardiovascular 
and kidney 
benefit
REDUCTION IN DIABETES COMPLICATIONS
Figure 10.1—Multifactorial approach to reduction in risk of diabetes complications. 
S218 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

by the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention 
Trial (SPRINT), which demonstrated that 
treatment to a goal systolic blood pressure 
of <120 mmHg decreases cardiovascular 
event rates by 25% in high-risk individu-
als, although people with diabetes were 
excluded from this trial (44). While the rela-
tively underpowered ACCORD (Action to 
Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes) 
blood pressure trial (ACCORD BP) did not 
demonstrate that aiming for a systolic blood 
pressure <120 mmHg in people with diabe-
tes results in decreased cardiovascular event 
rates, the prespecified secondary outcome 
of stroke was reduced by 41% with inten-
sive treatment (45). Notably, there is an ab-
sence of high-quality data available to guide 
blood pressure goals in people with type 1 
diabetes, but a similar blood pressure goal 
of <130/80 mmHg is recommended in peo-
ple with type 1 diabetes. As discussed be-
low, treatment should be individualized. 
For more information on individualized 
blood pressure goals in older individuals, 
please see section 13, “Older Adults.”
Randomized Controlled Trials of Intensive 
Versus Standard Blood Pressure Management
BPROAD provides the strongest evidence 
to support a systolic blood pressure treat-
ment goal of <120 mmHg, as it enrolled 
people with type 2 diabetes and in-
creased cardiovascular risk with a baseline 
systolic blood pressure ≥140 mmHg (or 
130–180 mmHg if already taking antihy-
pertensive medication). Increased cardio-
vascular risk was defined as a history of 
CVD at least 3 months before enrollment, 
subclinical CVD, two or more cardiovascular 
risk factors, and CKD (estimated glomerular 
filtration rate [eGFR] 30 to <60 mL/min/ 
1.72 m2). The 12,821 participants with type 2 
diabetes were randomized to a goal sys-
tolic blood pressure <120 mmHg or stan-
dard treatment (goal systolic blood pressure 
<140 mmHg). The primary outcome of non-
fatal stroke, nonfatal MI, treatment or hos-
pitalization for heart failure, or death from 
cardiovascular causes was reduced by 21% 
in the intensive treatment group (hazard 
ratio [HR] 0.79, 95% CI 0.69–0.90), with 
an achieved mean systolic blood pressure 
in the intensive group of 121.6 mmHg vs. 
133.2 mmHg in the standard therapy 
group. Adverse event rates were similar 
in the two groups, although symptomatic 
hypotension and hyperkalemia were 
more frequent in the intensive therapy 
group (42).
A second, large blood pressure trial in-
cluding a substantial number of people 
with diabetes was published since the de-
velopment of the 2025 “Standards of Care 
in Diabetes.” The ESPRIT trial randomized 
11,255 individuals with high cardiovascu-
lar risk (established CVD or two risk fac-
tors), of whom 39% had type 2 diabetes, 
to intensive treatment (goal systolic blood 
pressure of <120 mmHg) versus standard 
treatment (goal systolic blood pressure 
<140 mmHg). The primary outcome, a 
composite of MI, revascularization, hospi-
talization for heart failure, stroke, or cardio-
vascular death, was significantly reduced 
by 12% in the intensive therapy group (HR 
0.88, 95% CI 0.78–0.99) irrespective of the 
diagnosis of diabetes at baseline. The inves-
tigators reported a modest increase in ad-
verse events, including syncope (0.4% vs. 
0.1%, HR 3.00, 95% CI 1.35–6.68) (43).
Although SPRINT excluded people with 
type 2 diabetes, it provides evidence to 
support the BPROAD and ESPRIT findings 
that lower blood pressure goals in individu-
als at increased cardiovascular risk improve 
outcome (44). The trial enrolled 9,361 indi-
viduals with a systolic blood pressure of 
≥130 mmHg and increased cardiovascular 
risk and treated to a systolic blood pressure 
goal of <120 mmHg (intensive treatment) 
versus a goal of <140 mmHg (standard 
treatment). The primary composite out-
come of MI, acute coronary syndromes, 
stroke, heart failure, or death from cardio-
vascular causes was reduced by 25% 
in the intensive treatment group. The 
achieved systolic blood pressures in the 
trial were 121 mmHg and 136 mmHg in 
the intensive versus standard treatment 
group, respectively. Adverse outcomes, in-
cluding hypotension, syncope, electrolyte 
abnormality, and acute kidney injury (AKI), 
were more common in the intensive treat-
ment arm; risk of adverse outcomes there-
fore needs to be weighed against the 
cardiovascular benefit of more intensive 
blood pressure lowering.
The STEP trial assigned 8,511 individu-
als aged 60–80 years with hypertension to 
a systolic blood pressure goal of 110 to 
<130 mmHg (intensive treatment) or 130 
to <150 mmHg (40). In this trial, in which 
approximately 19% of participants had di-
abetes, the primary composite outcome 
of stroke, acute coronary syndrome, acute 
decompensated heart failure, coronary re-
vascularization, atrial fibrillation, or death 
from cardiovascular causes occurred in 
3.5% of individuals in the intensive 
treatment group versus 4.6% in the stan-
dard treatment group (HR 0.74 [95% CI 
0.60–0.92]; P = 0.007). Hypotension oc-
curred more frequently in the intensive 
treatment group (3.4%) compared with 
the standard treatment group (2.6%) 
without significant differences in other ad-
verse events, including dizziness, syncope, 
or fractures. For more information on 
blood pressure goals in older adults, 
please see section 13, “Older Adults.”
ACCORD BP randomized 4,733 individu-
als with type 2 diabetes to intensive ther-
apy (aiming for a systolic blood pressure 
<120 mmHg) or standard therapy (aiming 
for a systolic blood pressure <140 mmHg) 
(45). The mean achieved systolic blood 
pressures were 119 mmHg and 133 mmHg 
in the intensive and standard groups, re-
spectively. The primary composite outcome 
of nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or death 
from cardiovascular causes was not signifi-
cantly reduced in the intensive treatment 
group, although the prespecified second-
ary outcome of stroke was significantly re-
duced by 41% in the intensive treatment 
group. Adverse events attributed to blood 
pressure treatment, including hypotension, 
syncope, bradycardia, hyperkalemia, and 
elevations in serum creatinine, occurred 
more frequently in the intensive treatment 
arm than in the standard therapy arm. 
ACCORD BP has been viewed as under-
powered due to the composite primary 
end point being less sensitive to blood 
pressure intervention (44,45).
In the Action in Diabetes and Vascular 
Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Con-
trolled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial, 11,140 
people with type 2 diabetes were ran-
domized to receive either treatment with 
a fixed combination of perindopril and in-
dapamide or matching placebo (46). The 
primary end point, a composite of cardio-
vascular death, nonfatal stroke or MI, or 
new or worsening kidney or eye disease, 
was reduced by 9% in the combination 
treatment. The achieved systolic blood 
pressure was ∼135 mmHg in the treat-
ment group and 140 mmHg in the pla-
cebo group.
The Hypertension Optimal Treatment 
(HOT) trial enrolled 18,790 individuals and 
aimed for a diastolic blood pressure <90 
mmHg, <85 mmHg, or <80 mmHg (47). 
The cardiovascular event rates, defined as 
fatal or nonfatal MI, fatal and nonfatal 
strokes, and all other cardiovascular events, 
were not significantly different between di-
astolic blood pressure goals (≤90 mmHg, 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S219 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

≤85 mmHg, and ≤80 mmHg), although 
the lowest incidence of cardiovascular 
events occurred with an achieved diastolic 
blood pressure of 82 mmHg. However, in 
people with diabetes, there was a signifi-
cant 51% reduction in MI, stroke, and 
cardiovascular death in the treatment 
group with a goal diastolic blood pressure 
of <80 mmHg compared with a goal dia-
stolic blood pressure of <90 mmHg.
Individualization of Treatment Goals
People with diabetes and clinicians should 
engage in a shared decision-making pro-
cess to determine individual blood pres-
sure goals (23). A thorough review of the 
benefits and risks of intensive blood pres-
sure goals is consistent with a person- 
focused approach to care that values indi-
vidual priorities and health care profes-
sional judgment (48). Secondary analyses 
of ACCORD BP and SPRINT suggest that 
clinical factors can help identify individuals 
more likely to benefit from and less likely 
Start one agent
Continue therapy
Continue therapy
Albuminuria or CAD*
Start ACEi or ARB or 
CCB† or diuretic‡
Start ACEi or ARB
Start two drugs from 
ACEi or ARB, CCB† or diuretic‡
Add agent from 
complementary drug class:
• ACEi or ARB
• CCB†
• Diuretic‡
Consider change to 
alternative medication:
• ACEi or ARB
• CCB†
• Diuretic‡
Start ACEi or ARB and 
CCB† or diuretic‡
Albuminuria or CAD*
Lifestyle management
Assess BP goals§ and adverse effects
Assess BP goals§ and adverse effects
Consider addition of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist; 
refer to specialist with expertise in BP management
Start two agents
Yes
No
No
Not meeting goal or adverse effects using 
a drug from each of three classes
Yes
Treatment tolerated 
and goal achieved
Not meeting goal
Adverse effects
Not meeting goal 
on two agents
Treatment tolerated 
and goal achieved
Recommendations for the treatment of confirmed 
hypertension in nonpregnant people with diabetes
Figure 10.2—Recommendations for the treatment of confirmed hypertension in nonpregnant people with diabetes. *An ACE inhibitor (ACEi) or 
angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) is suggested for the treatment of hypertension in people with coronary artery disease (CAD) or urine albumin-to- 
creatinine ratio 30–299 mg/g creatinine and is strongly recommended for individuals with urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio ≥300 mg/g creatinine. 
†Dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB). ‡Thiazide-like diuretic; long-acting agents shown to reduce cardiovascular events, such as chlorthalidone 
and indapamide, are preferred. §If it can be safely attained, the on-treatment blood pressure goal is <130/80 mmHg; a systolic blood pressure goal 
<120 mmHg should be encouraged in individuals with high cardiovascular or kidney risk. BP, blood pressure. Adapted from de Boer et al. (24). 
S220 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

to be harmed by intensive blood pressure 
management (49,50).
Absolute benefit from blood pressure 
reduction correlated with absolute baseline 
cardiovascular risk in SPRINT and in earlier 
clinical trials conducted at higher baseline 
blood pressure levels (50,51). The results of 
BPROAD and ESPRIT highlight that target-
ing an on-treatment systolic blood pressure 
goal of <120 mmHg in people with high 
cardiovascular risk is associated with reduc-
tion in cardiovascular events compared 
with systolic blood pressure <140 mmHg. 
These benefits should be weighed against 
treatment-related adverse events such as 
hypotension and syncope, which may be 
particularly relevant in older individuals 
with orthostatic hypotension, substantial 
comorbidity, functional limitations, or poly-
pharmacy and some individuals who may 
prefer higher blood pressure goals to en-
hance quality of life.
Treatment Strategies
Lifestyle Intervention
Lifestyle management is an important 
component of hypertension treatment be-
cause it lowers blood pressure, enhances 
the effectiveness of some antihyperten-
sive medications, promotes other aspects 
of metabolic and vascular health, and 
generally leads to few adverse effects. 
Lifestyle therapy consists of reducing 
excess body weight through caloric re-
striction (see section 8, “Obesity and 
Weight Management for the Prevention 
and Treatment of Diabetes”), at least 
150 min of moderate-intensity aerobic ac-
tivity per week (see section 3, “Prevention 
or Delay of Diabetes and Associated 
Comorbidities”), restricting sodium in-
take (<2,300 mg/day), increasing con-
sumption of fruits and vegetables (8–10 
servings per day) and low-fat dairy prod-
ucts or nondairy alternatives (2–3 servings 
per day), avoiding excessive alcohol con-
sumption (no more than 2 servings per 
day in men and no more than 1 serving 
per day in women) (52), and increasing ac-
tivity levels (53) (see section 5, “Facilitating 
Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being 
to Improve Health Outcomes”). A system-
atic review of 10 randomized controlled 
trials reported that compared with control 
diet, the modified Dietary Approaches to 
Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating pattern 
could reduce mean systolic (−3.26 mmHg 
[95% CI −5.58 to −0.94 mmHg]; P = 
0.006) and diastolic (−2.07 mmHg [95% 
CI −3.68 to −0.46 mmHg]; P = 0.01) 
blood pressure (54).
These lifestyle interventions are reason-
able for individuals with diabetes and 
mildly elevated blood pressure (systolic 
>120 mmHg and diastolic <80 mmHg) 
and should be initiated along with phar-
macologic therapy when hypertension is 
diagnosed (Fig. 10.2) (53). A lifestyle ther-
apy plan should be developed in collabo-
ration with the person with diabetes and 
discussed as part of diabetes manage-
ment. Use of internet or mobile-based 
digital platforms to reinforce healthy be-
haviors may be considered as a compo-
nent of care, as these interventions have 
been found to enhance the efficacy of 
medical therapy for hypertension (55,56).
Recommendation
10.5 For people with diabetes and 
blood pressure >120/80 mmHg, advise 
lifestyle behaviors including weight loss 
when indicated, a Dietary Approaches 
to Stop Hypertension (DASH)–style eat-
ing pattern including reducing sodium, 
limiting or avoiding alcohol consump-
tion, increased physical activity, and 
smoking cessation. A
PHARMACOLOGIC 
INTERVENTIONS
Recommendations
10.6 In individuals with confirmed 
office-based blood pressure ≥130/ 
80 mmHg, pharmacologic therapy 
should be initiated and titrated to 
achieve their individualized blood 
pressure goal. A
10.7 Individuals with confirmed office- 
based blood pressure ≥150/90 mmHg 
should, in addition to lifestyle therapy, 
have prompt initiation and timely titration 
of two drugs or a single-pill combination 
of drugs for hypertension that have also 
been demonstrated to reduce cardiovas-
cular events in people with diabetes. A
10.8 Treatment for hypertension should 
include drug classes demonstrated to 
reduce cardiovascular events in people 
with diabetes. A ACE inhibitors or an-
giotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are 
recommended first-line therapy for 
hypertension in people with diabetes 
and albuminuria or coronary artery 
disease. A
10.9 Multiple-drug therapy is gener-
ally required to achieve blood pressure 
goals. However, avoid any combination 
of ACE inhibitors, ARBs (including ARBs 
and neprilysin inhibitors), and direct 
renin inhibitors. A
10.10 In nonpregnant people with dia-
betes and hypertension, either an ACE 
inhibitor or ARB is recommended for 
those with moderately increased albu-
minuria (UACR 30–299 mg/g creati-
nine) B and is strongly recommended 
for those with severely increased albu-
minuria (UACR ≥300 mg/g creatinine) 
and/or estimated glomerular filtration 
rate (eGFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 to 
maximally tolerated dose to prevent 
the progression of kidney disease and 
reduce cardiovascular events. A If one 
class is not tolerated, the other should 
be substituted. B
10.11 Monitor for drop in eGFR and 
for increase in serum potassium levels 
at initiation and periodically as clinically 
appropriate when ACE inhibitors, ARBs, 
and mineralocorticoid receptor antago-
nists (MRAs) are used. B Monitor for 
hypokalemia when diuretics are used 
at routine visits and 7–14 days after ini-
tiation or after a dose change and peri-
odically as clinically appropriate. B
10.12 In sexually active individuals of 
childbearing potential who are not using 
reliable contraception, avoid ACE inhibi-
tors, ARBs, MRAs, direct renin inhibitors, 
and neprilysin inhibitors, as they are 
contraindicated in pregnancy. A
Initial Number of Antihypertensive Medi-
cations. Initial treatment for people with 
diabetes depends on the severity of hy-
pertension (Fig. 10.2). Those with blood 
pressure between 130/80 mmHg and 
150/90 mmHg may begin with a single 
drug. For individuals with blood pressure 
≥150/90 mmHg, initial pharmacologic treat-
ment with two antihypertensive medica-
tions is recommended to more effectively 
achieve blood pressure goals (57–59). Single- 
pill antihypertensive combinations may im-
prove medication-taking behavior in some 
individuals (60,61).
Classes of Antihypertensive Medications.
Initial treatment for hypertension should 
include any of the drug classes demon-
strated to reduce cardiovascular events in 
people with diabetes (27): ACE inhibitors 
(62), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) 
(62), thiazide-like diuretics (63), or dihy-
dropyridine calcium channel blockers (64). 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S221 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

In people with diabetes and established 
coronary artery disease, ACE inhibitors or 
ARBs are recommended first-line therapy 
for hypertension (65–67). For individu-
als with albuminuria (urine albumin-to- 
creatinine ratio [UACR] ≥30 mg/g), initial 
treatment should include an ACE inhibi-
tor or ARB to reduce the risk of progres-
sive kidney disease (24) (Fig. 10.2). In 
individuals receiving ACE inhibitor or ARB 
therapy, continuation of those medica-
tions as kidney function declines to eGFR 
<30 mL/min/1.73 m2 may provide car-
diovascular benefit without significantly 
increasing the risk of kidney failure (68). In 
the absence of albuminuria, risk of pro-
gressive kidney disease is low, and ACE in-
hibitors and ARBs have not been found to 
afford superior cardioprotection compared 
with thiazide-like diuretics or dihydropyridine 
calcium channel blockers (69). β-Blockers are 
indicated in the setting of prior MI, active an-
gina, or HFrEF but have not been shown to 
reduce mortality as blood pressure–lowering 
agents in the absence of these conditions 
(36,70,71).
Pregnancy and Antihypertensive Medications.
Please refer to section 15, “Management 
of Diabetes in Pregnancy,” for additional 
information on pregnancy blood pressure 
goals and treatment. During pregnancy, 
treatment with ACE inhibitors, ARBs, direct 
renin inhibitors, mineralocorticoid receptor 
antagonists (MRAs), and neprilysin inhibi-
tors are contraindicated, as they may cause 
fetal damage. Special consideration should 
be taken for individuals of childbearing po-
tential, and people intending to become 
pregnant should switch from an ACE in-
hibitor or ARB, renin inhibitor, MRA, or 
neprilysin inhibitor to an alternative anti-
hypertensive medication approved for 
use during pregnancy. Antihypertensive 
drugs known to be effective and safe in 
pregnancy include methyldopa, labetalol, 
and long-acting nifedipine, while hydral-
azine may be considered in the acute 
management of hypertension in preg-
nancy or severe preeclampsia (72). Di- 
uretics are not recommended for blood 
pressure management in pregnancy but 
may be used during late-stage pregnancy 
if needed for volume management (72). 
The American College of Obstetricians 
and Gynecologists also recommends that, 
postpartum, individuals with gestational 
hypertension, preeclampsia, or both have 
their blood pressures observed for 72 h in 
the hospital and 7–10 days postpartum. 
Long-term follow-up is recommended for 
these individuals, as they have increased 
lifetime cardiovascular risk (73).
Multiple-Drug Therapy. Multiple-drug ther-
apy is often required to achieve blood 
pressure goals (Fig. 10.2), particularly in 
the setting of CKD in people with diabetes. 
However, the use of both ACE inhibitors 
and ARBs in combination, or the combina-
tion of an ACE inhibitor or ARB and a direct 
renin inhibitor, is contraindicated given the 
lack of added ASCVD benefit and increased 
rate of adverse events—namely, hyperka-
lemia, syncope, and AKI (74–76). Titration 
of and/or addition of further blood pres-
sure medications should be made in a 
timely fashion to overcome therapeutic in-
ertia in achieving blood pressure goals.
Hyperkalemia and Acute Kidney Injury.
Treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs 
or MRAs can cause AKI and hyperkalemia, 
while diuretics can cause AKI and either 
hypokalemia or hyperkalemia (depending 
on mechanism of action) (77,78). Eleva-
tions in serum creatinine (up to 30% from 
baseline) with ACE inhibitors or ARBs 
must not be confused with AKI (79). AKI is 
defined as a rapid decline in kidney func-
tion, typically within a short period (hours 
to days), characterized by increase in se-
rum creatinine and/or decrease in urine 
output (80). Serum creatinine and potas-
sium should be monitored after initiation 
of treatment with an ACE inhibitor or 
ARB, MRA, or diuretic and monitored 
during treatment and following uptitra-
tion of these medications, particularly 
among individuals with reduced glomer-
ular filtration (77,78,81). For more infor-
mation on AKI, see section 11, “Chronic 
Kidney Disease and Risk Management.”
RESISTANT HYPERTENSION
Resistant hypertension is defined as 
blood pressure ≥130/80 mmHg despite 
a therapeutic strategy that includes appro-
priate lifestyle management plus a diuretic 
and two other antihypertensive drugs with 
complementary mechanisms of action at 
maximally tolerated doses. Prior to diag-
nosing resistant hypertension, a number of 
other conditions should be excluded, in-
cluding missed doses of antihypertensive 
medications, white coat hypertension, and 
primary and secondary hypertension. Diffi-
culty following the care plan may also be a 
reason for resistant hypertension. Interna-
tional Society of Hypertension guidelines 
put a strong emphasis on screening for 
care plan difficulties in management of hy-
pertension and recommend using objec-
tive measures such as review of pharmacy 
records, pill counting, and the chemical 
analysis of blood or urine rather than sub-
jective methods of detecting inconsisten-
cies in care plan engagement in routine 
clinical practice. However, this may not be 
feasible in all practice settings (25).
People with diabetes and confirmed re-
sistant hypertension should be evaluated 
for secondary causes of hypertension, in-
cluding primary aldosteronism, renal ar-
tery stenosis, CKD, and obstructive sleep 
apnea. In general, barriers to medication 
taking (such as cost and side effects) 
should be identified and addressed (Fig. 
10.2). MRAs, including spironolactone and 
eplerenone, are effective for management 
of resistant hypertension in people with 
type 2 diabetes when added to existing 
treatment with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, 
thiazide-like diuretic, or dihydropyridine 
calcium channel blocker (82). In addition, 
MRAs reduce albuminuria in people with 
diabetic nephropathy (83–85). However, 
adding an MRA to a treatment plan that 
includes an ACE inhibitor or ARB may in-
crease the risk for hyperkalemia, emphasiz-
ing the importance of regular monitoring 
for serum creatinine and potassium in these 
individuals, and long-term outcome studies 
are needed to better evaluate the role of 
MRAs in blood pressure management.
Recommendation
10.13 Individuals with hypertension who 
are not meeting blood pressure goals on 
three classes of antihypertensive medica-
tions (including a diuretic) should be con-
sidered for MRA therapy. A
LIPID MANAGEMENT
Lifestyle Intervention
Recommendations
10.14 Lifestyle modification focusing 
on weight loss (if indicated); application 
of a Mediterranean or DASH eating 
pattern; reduction of saturated fat and 
trans fat; increase of dietary n-3 fatty 
acids, soluble fiber, and plant stanol 
and sterol intake; and increased physi-
cal activity should be recommended to 
improve the lipid profile and reduce 
the risk of developing atherosclerotic 
S222 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Lifestyle intervention, including weight loss 
in people with overweight or obesity (when 
appropriate) (22,86), increased physical ac-
tivity, and medical nutrition therapy, allows 
some individuals to reduce ASCVD risk 
factors such as hypertension, dyslipide-
mia, or obesity. Nutrition intervention 
should be tailored according to each per-
son’s age, pharmacologic treatment, lipid 
levels, and medical conditions.
Recommendations should focus on ap-
plication of a Mediterranean (87) or DASH 
eating pattern, reducing saturated and 
trans fat intake, and increasing plant sta-
nol and sterol, n-3 fatty acid, and viscous 
fiber (such as in oats, legumes, and citrus) 
intake (22,86). Glycemic management may 
also beneficially modify plasma lipid levels, 
particularly in people with very high trigly-
cerides and poor glycemic management. 
See section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health 
Behaviors and Well-being to Improve 
Health Outcomes,” for additional nutrition 
information.
cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in peo-
ple with diabetes. A
10.15 Intensify lifestyle therapy and op-
timize glycemic management for people 
with diabetes with elevated triglyceride 
levels (≥150 mg/dL [≥1.7 mmol/L]) 
and/or low HDL cholesterol (<40 mg/dL 
[<1.0 mmol/L] for men and <50 mg/dL 
[<1.3 mmol/L] for women). C
Ongoing Therapy and Monitoring 
With Lipid Panel
In adults with diabetes, it is reasonable 
to obtain a lipid profile (total choles-
terol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, 
and triglycerides) at the time of diagno-
sis, at the initial medical evaluation, and 
at least every 5 years thereafter in indi-
viduals <40 years of age. In younger 
people with longer duration of disease 
(such as those diagnosed in childhood or 
adolescence), more frequent lipid profiles 
may be reasonable. A lipid panel should 
also be obtained immediately before ini-
tiating statin therapy. Once an individual 
is taking a statin, LDL cholesterol levels 
should be assessed 4–12 weeks after ini-
tiation of statin therapy, after any change 
in dose, and annually (e.g., to monitor 
for medication taking and efficacy). Mon-
itoring lipid profiles after initiation of 
statin therapy and during therapy in-
creases the likelihood of dose titration 
and following the statin treatment plan 
(88–90). Clinicians should attempt to find 
a dose or alternative statin that is tolera-
ble if side effects occur. There is evidence 
for benefit from even extremely low, less- 
than-daily statin doses (91).
Recommendations
10.16 In adults with prediabetes or di-
abetes not taking statins or other lipid- 
lowering therapy, it is reasonable to 
obtain a lipid profile at the time of 
diagnosis, at an initial medical evalua-
tion, annually thereafter, or more fre-
quently if indicated. E
10.17 Obtain a lipid profile at initia-
tion of statins or other lipid-lowering 
therapy, 4–12 weeks after initiation or 
a change in dose, and annually there-
after, as it facilitates monitoring the 
response to therapy and informs 
medication-taking behavior. A
STATIN TREATMENT
Primary Prevention
Recommendations
10.18 For people with diabetes aged 
40–75 years without ASCVD, use 
moderate-intensity statin therapy in 
addition to lifestyle therapy. A
10.19 For people with diabetes aged 
20–39 years with additional ASCVD 
risk factors, it may be reasonable to 
initiate statin therapy in addition to 
lifestyle therapy. C
10.20 For people with diabetes aged 
40–75 years at higher cardiovascular 
risk, including those with one or more 
additional ASCVD risk factors, high- 
intensity statin therapy is recom-
mended to reduce LDL cholesterol 
by ≥50% of baseline and to obtain 
an LDL cholesterol goal of <70 mg/dL 
(<1.8 mmol/L). A
10.21 For people with diabetes aged 
40–75 years at higher cardiovascular 
risk, especially those with multiple ad-
ditional ASCVD risk factors and an LDL 
cholesterol ≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L), 
it may be reasonable to add ezetimibe 
or a proprotein convertase subtilisin/ 
kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor to maxi-
mum tolerated statin therapy. B
10.22 In adults with diabetes aged 
>75 years already on statin therapy, 
it is reasonable to continue statin 
treatment. B
10.23 In adults with diabetes aged 
>75 years, it may be reasonable to 
initiate moderate-intensity statin ther-
apy after discussion of potential bene-
fits and risks. C
10.24 In people with diabetes intol-
erant to statin therapy, treatment 
with bempedoic acid is recommended 
to reduce cardiovascular event rates 
as an alternative cholesterol-lowering 
plan. A
10.25 In most circumstances, lipid- 
lowering agents should be stopped 
prior to conception and avoided in 
sexually active individuals of child-
bearing potential who are not using 
reliable contraception. B In some cir-
cumstances (e.g., familial hypercholes-
terolemia, familial hypertriglyceridemia, 
prior ASCVD event, or history of pan-
creatitis), lipid-lowering therapy may 
be continued when the benefits out-
weigh risks. E
Secondary Prevention
Recommendations
10.26 For people of all ages with dia-
betes and ASCVD, high-intensity statin 
therapy should be added to lifestyle 
therapy. A
10.27 For people with diabetes and 
ASCVD, treatment with high-intensity 
statin therapy is recommended to ob-
tain an LDL cholesterol reduction of 
≥50% from baseline and an LDL 
cholesterol goal of <55 mg/dL (<1.4 
mmol/L). Addition of ezetimibe or a 
PCSK9 inhibitor with proven benefit in 
this population is recommended if this 
goal is not achieved on maximum tol-
erated statin therapy. B
10.28a For individuals who do not 
tolerate the intended statin intensity, 
the maximum tolerated statin dose 
should be used. E
10.28b For people with diabetes and 
ASCVD intolerant to statin therapy, 
PCSK9 monoclonal antibody therapy, 
A bempedoic acid therapy, A or PCSK9 
inhibitor therapy with inclisiran siRNA E 
should be considered as an alternative 
cholesterol-lowering therapy.
Initiating Statin Therapy
People with type 2 diabetes have an in-
creased prevalence of lipid abnormalities, 
contributing to their high risk of ASCVD. 
Multiple clinical trials have demonstrated 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S223 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

the beneficial effects of statin therapy 
on ASCVD outcomes in subjects with 
and without established ASCVD (92,93). 
Subgroup analyses of people with dia-
betes in larger trials (94–98) and trials 
in people with diabetes (99,100) showed 
significant primary and secondary preven-
tion of ASCVD events and coronary heart 
disease (CHD) death in people with diabe-
tes. Meta-analyses including data from 
>18,000 people with diabetes from 14 
randomized trials of statin therapy (mean 
follow-up 4.3 years) demonstrated a 9% 
proportional reduction in all-cause mortal-
ity and 13% reduction in vascular mortality 
for each 1 mmol/L (39 mg/dL) reduction 
in LDL cholesterol (101). The cardiovas-
cular benefit in this large meta-analysis 
did not depend on baseline LDL choles-
terol levels and was linearly related to 
the LDL cholesterol reduction without a 
low threshold beyond which there was 
no benefit observed (101). It is important 
to note that the effects of statin therapy 
do not differ based on sex (92).
Accordingly, statins are the drugs of 
choice for LDL cholesterol lowering and 
cardioprotection. Table 10.1 shows the 
two statin dosing intensities that are rec-
ommended for use in clinical practice. 
High-intensity statin therapy will achieve 
an approximately ≥50% reduction in LDL 
cholesterol, and moderate-intensity statin 
plans achieve 30–49% reductions in LDL 
cholesterol. Low-dose statin therapy is gen-
erally not recommended in people with di-
abetes but is sometimes the only dose of 
statin that an individual can tolerate. For in-
dividuals who do not tolerate the intended 
intensity of statin, the maximum tolerated 
statin dose should be used.
Table 10.1—High-intensity and moderate-intensity statin therapy
High-intensity statin therapy  
(lowers LDL cholesterol by ≥50%)
Moderate-intensity statin therapy  
(lowers LDL cholesterol by 30–49%)
Atorvastatin 40–80 mg
Atorvastatin 10–20 mg
Rosuvastatin 20–40 mg
Rosuvastatin 5–10 mg
Simvastatin 20–40 mg
Pravastatin 40–80 mg
Lovastatin 40 mg
Fluvastatin XL 80 mg
Pitavastatin 1–4 mg
Once-daily dosing. XL, extended release.
As in those without diabetes, absolute 
reductions in ASCVD outcomes (CHD death 
and nonfatal MI) are greatest in people 
with high baseline ASCVD risk (known 
ASCVD and/or very high LDL cholesterol 
levels), but the overall benefits of statin 
therapy in people with diabetes at mod-
erate or even low risk for ASCVD are con-
vincing (102,103). The relative benefit of 
lipid-lowering therapy has been uniform 
across most subgroups tested (101,104), 
including subgroups that varied with re-
spect to age and other risk factors.
Primary Prevention (People Without ASCVD)
For primary prevention, moderate-dose 
statin therapy is recommended for those 
aged ≥40 years (22,105,106), although 
high-intensity therapy should be consid-
ered in the context of additional ASCVD 
risk factors, such as older age, hyperten-
sion, dyslipidemia, smoking, CKD, or obe-
sity (Fig. 10.3). The evidence is strong for 
people with diabetes aged 40–75 years, 
an age-group well represented in statin 
trials showing benefit. Since cardiovascu-
lar risk is enhanced in people with diabe-
tes, as noted above, individuals who also 
have multiple other coronary risk factors 
have increased risk, equivalent to that of 
those with ASCVD. Therefore, current guide-
lines recommend that in people with dia-
betes who are at higher cardiovascular 
risk, especially those with one or more 
ASCVD risk factors such as older age, hy-
pertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, CKD, 
or obesity, high-intensity statin therapy 
should be prescribed to reduce LDL cho-
lesterol by ≥50% from baseline and to 
obtain an LDL cholesterol of <70 mg/dL 
(<1.8 mmol/L) (107–109). Since, in clini-
cal practice, it is frequently difficult to as-
certain the baseline LDL cholesterol level 
prior to statin therapy initiation, in those 
individuals, a focus on an LDL cholesterol 
goal of <70 mg/dL (<1.8 mmol/L) rather 
than percent reduction in LDL cholesterol is 
recommended. In those individuals, it may 
also be reasonable to add ezetimibe or pro-
protein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 
(PCSK9) inhibitor therapy to maximum 
tolerated statin therapy if needed to re-
duce LDL cholesterol levels by ≥50% and 
to achieve the recommended LDL choles-
terol goal of <70 mg/dL (<1.8 mmol/L) 
(110). While there are no randomized 
controlled trials specifically assessing car-
diovascular outcomes of adding ezeti-
mibe or PCSK9 inhibitors to statin therapy 
in primary prevention, a portion of the par-
ticipants without established CVD were 
included in some studies, which also in-
cluded participants with established CVD. 
A meta-analysis suggests that there is a car-
diovascular benefit of adding ezetimibe or 
PCSK9 inhibitors to treatment for people at 
high risk (111). Less evidence is available 
for individuals aged >75 years, as few older 
people with diabetes have been enrolled 
in primary prevention trials. However, het-
erogeneity by age has not been seen in the 
relative benefit of lipid-lowering therapy 
in trials that included older participants 
(100,101,104), and because older age 
confers higher risk, the absolute benefits 
are actually greater (104,112). Moderate- 
intensity statin therapy is recommended 
in people with diabetes who are ≥75 
years of age. However, the risk-benefit 
profile should be routinely evaluated in 
this population, with downward titration 
of dose performed as needed. See section 
13, “Older Adults,” for more details on clin-
ical considerations for this population.
Age <40 Years and/or Type 1 Diabetes.
Very little clinical trial evidence exists for 
people with type 2 diabetes under the 
age of 40 years or for people with type 1 
diabetes of any age. For pediatric recom-
mendations, see section 14, “Children 
and Adolescents.” In the Heart Protection 
Study (lower age limit 40 years), the sub-
group of ∼600 people with type 1 diabe-
tes had a reduction in risk proportionately 
similar, although not statistically signifi-
cant, to that in people with type 2 diabe-
tes (95). Even though the data are not 
definitive, similar statin treatment ap-
proaches should be considered for people 
with type 1 or type 2 diabetes, particu-
larly in the presence of other cardiovascu-
lar risk factors. Individuals <40 years of 
age have lower risk of developing a car-
diovascular event over a 10-year period; 
however, their lifetime risk of developing 
CVD and experiencing an MI, stroke, or 
cardiovascular death is high. For people 
who are <40 years of age and/or have 
type 1 diabetes with other ASCVD risk 
factors (such as older age, hypertension, 
S224 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

dyslipidemia, smoking, CKD, or obesity), it 
is recommended that the individual and 
health care professional discuss the rela-
tive benefits and risks and consider the 
use of moderate-intensity statin therapy. 
Please refer to “Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus 
and Cardiovascular Disease: A Scientific 
Statement From the American Heart 
Association and American Diabetes 
Association” (113) for additional discussion. 
Recent data from the PCSK9 inhibitor trial 
FOURIER (Further Cardiovascular Out-
comes Research With PCSK9 Inhibition 
in Subjects With Elevated Risk) suggest 
that LDL cholesterol–lowering benefit 
has important cardiovascular risk reduc-
tion benefits in people with type 1 dia-
betes and established CVD, as discussed 
in SECONDARY PREVENTION (PEOPLE WITH ASCVD), 
below (114).
In people 40-75
years of age
Consider statin therapy 
if there are additional 
ASCVD risk factors.*
Use moderate-intensity statin 
therapy in those without 
ASCVD risk factors.*
Use bempedoic acid for those 
who are statin intolerant.
Use a high-intensity statin in 
with an LDL cholesterol goal 
It may be reasonable to add 
ezetimibe or anti-PCSK9 therapy 
with proven cardiovascular benefit 
to maximum tolerated statin therapy 
if LDL goal is not achieved. 
Continue current statin 
therapy or consider initiating a 
moderate-intensity statin after 
weighing benefits and risks.
Lipid management for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease 
events in people with diabetes in addition to healthy behavior modification
In people 20-39
years of age
In people >75
years of age
those with ≥1 ASCVD risk factor,* 
Figure 10.3—Recommendations for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in people with diabetes using cholesterol-lower-
ing therapy. *ASCVD risk factors include older age, hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, chronic kidney disease, or obesity. Adapted from “Standards of 
Care in Diabetes—2024 Abridged for Primary Care Professionals” (315). 
Use lifestyle and high-intensity 
statin therapy to reduce LDL 
L
.
Add ezetimibe or anti-PCSK9 
therapy with proven 
cardiovascular benefit if LDL 
cholesterol goals are not 
met on maximum tolerated 
statin therapy.
Use an alternative lipid-lowering treatment for those 
who are statin intolerant:
• 
 PCSK9 monoclonal antibody with 
proven cardiovascular benefit 
• 
Bempedoic acid
• 
 PCSK9 inhibition with siRNA inclisiran
Lipid management for secondary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events in people with diabetes
Figure 10.4—Recommendations for secondary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in people with diabetes using cholesterol-low-
ering therapy. Adapted from “Standards of Care in Diabetes—2024 Abridged for Primary Care Professionals” (315). 
Secondary Prevention (People With ASCVD)
Intensive therapy is indicated because 
cardiovascular event rates are increased 
in people with diabetes and established 
ASCVD, and it has been shown to be of 
benefit in multiple large meta-analyses 
and randomized cardiovascular outcomes 
trials (93,101,104,112,115). High-intensity 
statin therapy is recommended for all 
people with diabetes and ASCVD to obtain 
an LDL cholesterol reduction of ≥50% 
from baseline and an LDL cholesterol goal 
of <55 mg/dL (<1.4 mmol/L) (Fig. 10.4). 
The addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 in-
hibitor is recommended if this goal is not 
achieved on maximum tolerated statin 
therapy. These recommendations are based 
on the observation that high-intensity 
versus moderate-intensity statin therapy 
reduces cardiovascular event rates in high- 
risk individuals with established CVD in 
randomized trials (93). The Cholesterol 
Treatment Trialists’ Collaboration, involv-
ing 26 statin trials, of which 5 compared 
high-intensity versus moderate-intensity 
statins, showed a 21% reduction in major 
cardiovascular events in people with dia-
betes for every 39 mg/dL (1 mmol/L) of 
LDL cholesterol lowering, irrespective of 
baseline LDL cholesterol or individual char-
acteristics (101). The evidence to support 
lower LDL cholesterol goals in people with 
diabetes and established CVD derives from 
multiple large, randomized trials investigat-
ing the benefits of adding nonstatin agents 
to statin therapy, including combination 
treatment with statins and ezetimibe 
(112,116) or PCSK9 inhibitors (115,117–
119). Each trial found a large benefit in re-
ducing ASCVD events that was directly 
diabetesjournals.org/care
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S225 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

related to the degree of further LDL choles-
terol lowering. A large number of partici-
pants with diabetes were included in these 
trials, and prespecified analyses were com-
pleted to evaluate cardiovascular outcomes 
in people with and without diabetes 
(116,118,119). The decision to add a non-
statin agent should be made following a 
discussion between a clinician and a person 
with diabetes about the net benefit, safety, 
and cost of combination therapy.
Combination Therapy for LDL 
Cholesterol Lowering
Statins and Ezetimibe
The best evidence for combination therapy 
of statins and ezetimibe comes from the 
IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin 
Efficacy International Trial (IMPROVE-IT). 
The trial showed the addition of ezeti-
mibe to a moderate-intensity statin led 
to a 6.4% relative benefit and a 2% abso-
lute reduction in major adverse cardiovas-
cular events (atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
events), with the degree of benefit being 
directly proportional to the change in LDL 
cholesterol (112). A subanalysis of partici-
pants with diabetes (27% of the 18,144 par-
ticipants) showed a significant reduction of 
major adverse cardiovascular events with 
the combination treatment over moderate- 
intensity statin alone (116).
Statins and PCSK9 Inhibitors
The addition of the PCSK9 monoclonal 
antibodies evolocumab and alirocumab 
to maximum tolerated doses of statin 
therapy in participants who were at high 
risk for ASCVD demonstrated an average 
reduction in LDL cholesterol ranging from 
52% to 65% (120,121). No cardiovascular 
outcome trials have been performed to 
assess whether PCSK9 inhibitor therapy 
reduces ASCVD event rates in individuals 
at low or moderate risk for ASCVD (pri-
mary prevention). The evidence on the ef-
fect of PSCK9 monoclonal antibodies on 
ASCVD outcomes is from studies of treat-
ment with alirocumab and evolocumab. 
When added to a maximally tolerated 
statin, these agents reduced LDL cholesterol 
by ∼60% (115) and significantly reduced 
the risk of major adverse cardiovascular 
events by 15–20% in the FOURIER (evolo-
cumab) and ODYSSEY OUTCOMES (Evalu-
ation of Cardiovascular Outcomes After 
an Acute Coronary Syndrome During Treat-
ment With Alirocumab) trials (115,117,122). 
In the subanalyses of the participants with 
diabetes (40% in FOURIER and 28.8% in 
ODYSSEY OUTCOMES), similar benefits were 
seen compared with those for individuals 
without diabetes in FOURIER (119), whereas 
a greater absolute risk reduction was 
seen for participants with diabetes (2.3% 
[95% CI 0.4–4.2]) than for those with pre-
diabetes (1.2% [0.0–2.4]) or normoglyce-
mia (1.2% [−0.3–2.7]) in the ODYSSEY 
OUTCOMES trial (118). While clinical out-
come data for the effects of LDL choles-
terol lowering in people with type 1 
diabetes are scarce, a stratified analysis 
of FOURIER provided insights on the back-
ground risk of cardiovascular events in 
people with type 1, type 2, or no diabetes 
(114). Of the 27,564 participants in FOU-
RIER, 197 (0.7%) had type 1 diabetes and 
10,834 (39.3%) had type 2 diabetes. Partici-
pants with type 1 diabetes randomly as-
signed to placebo had a higher rate of 
major cardiovascular events (Kaplan-Meier 
event rate 20.4%) than those with type 2 
diabetes (15.2%) and those without diabe-
tes (11.0%). The relative reduction in the 
risk of the primary major adverse cardio-
vascular event outcome with active com-
pared with placebo evolocumab was 
similar across different types or statuses of 
diabetes (type 1 diabetes HR 0.66, 95% CI 
0.32–1.38; type 2 diabetes HR 0.84, 95% 
CI 0.75–0.93; no diabetes HR 0.87, 95% CI 
0.79–0.96). These observations suggest 
that the absolute risk reduction of major 
cardiovascular events with evolocumab in 
individuals with type 1 diabetes was at 
least as large, if not larger, than that seen 
for type 2 diabetes or no diabetes. These 
data support the use of PCSK9 inhibitors 
in the achievement of aggressive LDL cho-
lesterol lowering in people with type 1 di-
abetes and established ASCVD (114).
In addition to the monoclonal antibod-
ies, an siRNA, inclisiran, which also targets 
PSCK9 and is referred to as a PCSK9 siRNA 
in this section, has demonstrated the abil-
ity to reduce LDL cholesterol by 49–52% 
in trials evaluating individuals with estab-
lished CVD or ASCVD risk equivalent (123). 
Cardiovascular outcome trials using in-
clisiran in people with established CVD 
(124,125) and for primary prevention in 
those at high risk for CVD (126) are cur-
rently ongoing. For this reason, therapy 
with the PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies 
(alirocumab and evolocumab) is preferred 
to therapy with PCSK9 siRNA (inclisiran).
Intolerance to Statin Therapy
Statin therapy is a cornerstone of CVD 
prevention and treatment; however, a 
subset of individuals experience partial 
(inability to tolerate sufficient dosage nec-
essary to achieve therapeutic objectives 
due to adverse effects) or complete (in-
ability to tolerate any dose) intolerance to 
statin therapy (127). Although the defini-
tion of statin intolerance differs between 
organizations and across clinical study 
methods, these individuals will require 
an alternative treatment approach. Initial 
steps in people intolerant to statins may 
include switching to a different high- 
intensity statin if a high-intensity statin is 
indicated, switching to moderate-intensity 
or low-intensity statin, lowering the statin 
dose, or using nondaily dosing with sta-
tins. While considering these alternative 
treatment plans, the addition of nonstatin 
treatment plans to maximum tolerated 
statin therapy should be considered, as 
these are frequently associated with im-
proved medication-taking behavior and 
achievement of LDL cholesterol goals 
(127).
PCSK9-Directed Therapies
The PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies aliro-
cumab and evolocumab both have been 
shown to be effective for LDL cholesterol 
reduction and fewer skeletal muscle–
related adverse effects when studied in 
populations considered statin intolerant. 
The Study of Alirocumab in Patients With 
Primary Hypercholesterolemia and Mod-
erate, High, or Very High Cardiovascular 
Risk, Who Are Intolerant to Statins 
(ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE) trial studied the 
reduction in LDL cholesterol with alirocu-
mab compared with ezetimibe or 20 mg 
atorvastatin in individuals at moderate to 
very high cardiovascular risk for 24 weeks. 
The proportion of the study population 
with type 2 diabetes was ∼24%. After the 
24 weeks, alirocumab lowered LDL cho-
lesterol levels by 54.8% versus 20.1% 
with ezetimibe. There were similar rates 
of any adverse event for all treatments; 
however, fewer events that led to treat-
ment discontinuation and few skeletal 
muscle–related adverse events occurred 
with alirocumab (128).
The Goal Achievement After Utilizing 
an Anti-PCSK9 Antibody in Statin Intoler-
ant Subjects 1, 2, and 3 (GAUSS 1, 2, and 
3) trials, as well as the Open-Label Study 
of Long-term Evaluation Against LDL Cho-
lesterol (OSLER) open-label extension of 
the GAUSS 1 and 2 trials, evaluated the 
safety and LDL cholesterol reduction of 
evolocumab plus ezetimibe compared with 
S226 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

ezetimibe alone in individuals with statin 
intolerance.
Reductions in LDL cholesterol ranged 
from 55% and 56% for evolocumab bi-
weekly and monthly plus daily oral pla-
cebo, respectively, to 19% and 16% for 
ezetimibe daily plus biweekly or monthly 
subcutaneous placebo, respectively. Fewer 
musculoskeletal adverse effects occurred 
in those treated with evolocumab or ezeti-
mibe than in those treated with ezetimibe 
plus placebo, although rates of discontinu-
ation due to these effects were similar. 
Use of low-dose statins was allowed in 
these studies and was associated with an 
increase in the incidence of musculoskele-
tal adverse effects (129,130). Similar LDL 
cholesterol reductions were demonstrated 
in the GAUSS 3 trial after 24 weeks (54.5% 
with evolocumab compared with 16.7% 
with ezetimibe), with slightly higher rates 
of musculoskeletal adverse events (20.7% 
with evolocumab and 28.8% with ezeti-
mibe). The higher rates of these adverse 
events may be due in part to the first 
phase of this trial, which randomized indi-
viduals to a statin rechallenge with either 
atorvastatin or placebo (131).
Inclisiran, a PCSK9 siRNA, has also been 
proposed as an option for individuals with 
statin intolerance. Although most of the 
individuals in studies of inclisarin were on 
statin therapy, one short-term study (Trial 
to Evaluate the Effect of ALN-PCSSC Treat-
ment on Low-density Lipoprotein Choles-
terol [ORION-1]) included individuals with 
documented statin intolerance (132) and 
could continue into an open-label exten-
sion trial (Extension Trial of Inclisiran in 
Participants With Cardiovascular Disease 
and High Cholesterol [ORION-3]), where 
an LDL cholesterol reduction of ∼45% was 
maintained through the end of year 4 
(133). It is important to note that of the 
ORION-3 participants, 23% had diabetes 
and 33% were not taking statin therapy. 
Although it may be expected that those 
with statin intolerance experienced a re-
sponse similar to the response of those 
on statin therapy, evaluation of response 
based on background lipid-lowering ther-
apy was not described.
Bempedoic Acid
Bempedoic acid, a newer LDL cholesterol–
lowering agent targeting the same path-
way as statins but without activity in skel-
etal muscle, thus limiting muscle-related 
adverse effects, lowers LDL cholesterol 
levels by 15% for those on statins and 
24% for those not taking statins (134). 
Use of this agent with ezetimibe results in 
an additional 19% reduction in LDL cho-
lesterol (134). The Evaluation of Major 
Cardiovascular Events in Patients With, or 
at High Risk for, Cardiovascular Disease 
Who Are Statin Intolerant Treated With 
Bempedoic Acid or Placebo (CLEAR Out-
comes) trial found a reduction in four- 
point major adverse cardiovascular events 
by 13% compared with placebo for indi-
viduals with established ASCVD (70% of 
population) or at high risk for ASCVD (30% 
of population) and considered to be intol-
erant to statin therapy. It is important to 
note that ∼19% of individuals were on 
very-low-dose statin therapy at baseline 
(135). Prespecified subanalyses evaluated 
the impact for individuals with diabetes 
and showed a 17% reduction in four-point 
major adverse cardiovascular events when 
treated with bempedoic acid (136). For in-
dividuals requiring primary prevention, the 
use of bempedoic acid resulted in a 30% 
reduction in primary composite outcome 
compared with placebo (137).
Lipid-Lowering Care Considerations 
for Individuals of Childbearing 
Potential
Individuals of childbearing potential are less 
likely to be treated with statins or achieve 
their LDL cholesterol goals based on their 
cardiovascular risk (138–140). This is likely 
related to concerns and lack of familiarity 
with the use of lipid-lowering agents during 
pregnancy. The trials evaluating the efficacy 
and safety of lipid-lowering medications 
exclude individuals who are pregnant and 
require individuals of childbearing poten-
tial to use contraception (some requiring 
two forms). Therefore, for many pregnant 
individuals, it is recommended that they 
discontinue lipid-lowering therapies dur-
ing gestation. However, for individuals at 
higher risk for cardiovascular events (e.g., 
those with familial hypercholesterolemia 
or preexisting ASCVD), the risk of discon-
tinuing all lipid-lowering therapy during 
preconception and pregnancy should be 
reviewed and weighed against an in-
creased risk for cardiovascular events. Con-
sideration of initiating statin therapy during 
pregnancy should occur with these high- 
risk individuals. Although the evidence is 
limited, statins did not increase teratogenic 
effects for individuals with familial hyper-
cholesterolemia (141,142), and a meta- 
analysis of pravastatin in pregnant individu-
als showed a reduction in preeclampsia, 
premature birth, and neonatal intensive 
care unit admissions (143). There is limited 
information regarding the use of lipid- 
lowering therapies (other than bile acid se-
questrants) during pregnancy. Thus, it is 
recommended that individuals of childbear-
ing potential use a form of contraception 
when also using lipid-lowering medications 
with unknown risks, limited evidence on 
safety, or known risks during pregnancy re-
gardless of intention to become pregnant, 
as many pregnancies are unplanned, and 
preconception counseling should be part of 
the routine care of individuals with diabetes 
who have childbearing potential. Counsel-
ing should include the known benefits and 
risks of lipid-lowering medications versus 
the risks and benefits of not treating the 
conditions for which they are prescribed, as 
well as other medications (e.g., noninsulin 
glucose-lowering therapies and antihy-
pertensive agents), during pregnancy and 
recommendations for when changes in 
medications should occur prior to preg-
nancy (138) (see section 15, “Management 
of Diabetes in Pregnancy,” for more infor-
mation on preconception counseling and 
lipid-lowering treatment during pregnancy).
Treatment of Other Lipoprotein 
Fractions or Goals
Recommendations
10.29 For individuals with fasting triglyc-
eride levels ≥500 mg/dL (≥5.7 mmol/L), 
evaluate for secondary causes of hy-
pertriglyceridemia and consider med-
ical therapy to reduce the risk of 
pancreatitis. C
10.30 In adults with hypertriglyceride-
mia (fasting triglycerides >150 mg/dL 
[>1.7 mmol/L] or nonfasting triglycer-
ides >175 mg/dL [>2.0 mmol/L]), clini-
cians should address and treat lifestyle 
factors (obesity and metabolic syn-
drome), secondary factors (diabetes, 
chronic liver or kidney disease and/or 
nephrotic syndrome, and hypothyroid-
ism), and medications that raise trigly-
cerides. C
10.31 In individuals with ASCVD or other 
cardiovascular risk factors on a statin 
with managed LDL cholesterol but ele-
vated triglycerides (150–499 mg/dL 
[1.7–5.6 mmol/L]), the addition of ico-
sapent ethyl can be considered to re-
duce cardiovascular risk. B
Hypertriglyceridemia should be ad-
dressed with nutritional and lifestyle 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S227 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

changes, including weight loss and absti-
nence from alcohol (144). Severe hypertrigly-
ceridemia (fasting triglycerides ≥500 mg/dL 
[≥5.7 mmol/L] and especially >1,000 mg/dL 
[>11.3 mmol/L]) may warrant pharma-
cologic therapy (fibric acid derivatives 
and/or fish oil) and reduction in fat intake 
to reduce the risk of acute pancreatitis 
(145). Moderate- or high-intensity statin 
therapy should also be used as indicated 
to reduce risk of cardiovascular events 
(see STATIN TREATMENT, above) (144,146). In 
people with hypertriglyceridemia (fasting 
triglycerides >150 mg/dL [>1.7 mmol/L] 
or nonfasting triglycerides >175 mg/dL 
[>2.0 mmol/L]), lifestyle interventions, 
treatment of secondary factors, and 
avoidance of medications that might raise 
triglycerides are recommended.
For individuals with established CVD or 
with risk factors for CVD with elevated trigly-
cerides (150–499 mg/dL [1.7–5.6 mmol/L]) 
after maximizing statin therapy, icosapent 
ethyl may be added to reduce cardiovas-
cular risk. The Reduction of Cardiovascular 
Events with Icosapent Ethyl-Intervention 
Trial (REDUCE-IT) showed that the addition 
of icosapent ethyl to statin therapy in this 
population resulted in a 25% relative risk 
reduction (P < 0.001) for the primary end 
point composite of cardiovascular death, 
nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, coronary re-
vascularization, or unstable angina com-
pared with placebo. This risk reduction 
was seen in individuals with or without di-
abetes at baseline. The composite of car-
diovascular death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal 
stroke was reduced by 26% (P < 0.001). 
Additional ischemic end points were signif-
icantly lower in the icosapent ethyl group 
than in the placebo group, including car-
diovascular death, which was reduced by 
20% (P = 0.03). The proportions of individ-
uals experiencing adverse events and seri-
ous adverse events were similar between 
the active and placebo treatment groups. 
Current evidence from randomized trials 
does not support cardiovascular risk re-
duction for other n-3 fatty acids, and re-
sults of the REDUCE-IT trial should not be 
extrapolated to other products (147). As 
an example, the addition of 4 g per day of 
a carboxylic acid formulation of the n-3 
fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) 
and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (n-3 car-
boxylic acid) to statin therapy in individuals 
with atherogenic dyslipidemia and high 
cardiovascular risk, 70% of whom had dia-
betes, did not reduce the risk of major 
adverse cardiovascular events compared 
with the inert comparator of corn oil (148).
Low levels of HDL cholesterol, often as-
sociated with elevated triglyceride levels, 
are the most prevalent pattern of dyslipi-
demia in people with type 2 diabetes. 
However, the evidence for the use of 
drugs that target these lipid fractions is 
substantially less robust than that for 
statin therapy (149). Neither the ACCORD- 
lipid trial nor the Pemafibrate to Reduce 
Cardiovascular Outcomes by Reducing 
Triglycerides in Patients with Diabetes 
(PROMINENT) trial, both conducted in 
people with type 2 diabetes on statin 
therapy, found that the fibrate fenofi-
brate or pemafibrate improved cardio-
vascular outcomes (150,151).
Statin and Fibrate Combination Therapy
Combination therapy (statin and fibrate) 
is associated with an increased risk for ab-
normal transaminase levels, myositis, and 
rhabdomyolysis. The risk of rhabdomyoly-
sis is more common with higher doses of 
statins and renal insufficiency and ap-
pears to be higher when statins are com-
bined with gemfibrozil (compared with 
fenofibrate) (152).
In the ACCORD study, in people with 
type 2 diabetes who were at high risk for 
ASCVD, the combination of fenofibrate 
and simvastatin did not reduce the rate 
of fatal cardiovascular events, nonfatal 
MI, or nonfatal stroke compared with 
simvastatin alone (153). In the PROMI-
NENT trial, in people with type 2 diabetes 
and elevated triglycerides (≥200 mg/dL 
and low HDL [≤40 mg/dL]), pemafibrate 
0.2 mg twice daily reduced triglycerides 
by 26% but did not reduce the risk of the 
primary outcome of nonfatal MI, nonfatal 
stroke, hospitalization for unplanned cor-
onary revascularization, or cardiovascular 
death (151). Therefore, combination ther-
apy with statin and fibrate is not recom-
mended for cardiovascular risk reduction.
Statin and Niacin Combination Therapy
Combination therapy with a statin and ni-
acin is not recommended, given the lack 
of efficacy on major ASCVD outcomes 
and increased side effects. Monotherapy 
with niacin is also not recommended. 
Large clinical trials, including the Athero-
thrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syn-
drome With Low HDL/High Triglycerides: 
Impact on Global Health Outcomes 
(AIM-HIGH) and Heart Protection Study 
2–Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Inci-
dence of Vascular Events (HPS2-THRIVE) 
trials, failed to demonstrate a benefit of 
adding niacin to individuals on appropri-
ate statin therapy. In fact, there was a 
possible increased risk of ischemic stroke 
in the AIM-HIGH trial (154) and an in-
creased incidence of new-onset diabetes 
(absolute excess, 1.3 percentage points; 
P < 0.001) and disturbances in diabetes 
management among those with diabetes 
in the HPS2-THRIVE trial in those on com-
bination therapy (155).
Other Combination Therapy
Recommendations
10.32 In individuals receiving statin 
therapy, the addition of fibrate, niacin, 
or dietary supplements containing n-3 
fatty acids is not recommended as 
they do not provide additional cardio-
vascular risk reduction. A
Diabetes Risk With Statin Use
Several studies have reported a modestly 
increased risk of incident type 2 diabetes 
with statin use (156,157), which may be 
limited to those with diabetes risk factors 
and/or impaired glucose tolerance. An 
analysis of one of the initial studies 
suggested that although statin use was 
associated with diabetes risk, the car-
diovascular event rate reduction with 
statins far outweighed the risk of inci-
dent diabetes, even for individuals at 
highest risk for diabetes (158). The ab-
solute risk increase was small (over 
5 years of follow-up, 1.2% of participants 
on placebo developed diabetes and 
1.5% on rosuvastatin developed diabetes) 
(158). A meta-analysis of 13 randomized 
statin trials with 91,140 participants 
showed an odds ratio of 1.09 for a new 
diagnosis of diabetes, so that (on aver-
age) treatment of 255 individuals with 
statins for 4 years resulted in one additional 
case of diabetes while simultaneously 
preventing 5.4 vascular events among 
those 255 individuals (157).
Lipid-Lowering Agents and Cognitive 
Function
Although concerns regarding a potential 
adverse impact of lipid-lowering agents 
on cognitive function have been raised, 
several lines of evidence argue against 
this association, as detailed in a 2018 Eu-
ropean Atherosclerosis Society Consensus 
S228 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Panel statement (159). First, there are 
three large, randomized trials of statin 
versus placebo where specific cognitive 
tests were performed, and no differences 
were seen between statin and placebo 
(160–163). In addition, no change in cog-
nitive function has been reported in stud-
ies with the addition of ezetimibe (112) 
or PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies (115,164) 
to statin therapy, including among individ-
uals treated to very low LDL cholesterol 
levels. In addition, systematic reviews of 
randomized controlled trials and prospec-
tive cohort studies evaluating cognition in 
individuals receiving statins found that 
published data do not reveal an adverse 
effect of statins on cognition (165,166). 
Therefore, a concern that statins or other 
lipid-lowering agents might cause cogni-
tive dysfunction or dementia is not cur-
rently supported by evidence and should 
not deter their use in individuals with dia-
betes at high risk for ASCVD (167).
ANTIPLATELET AGENTS
Recommendations
10.33 Use aspirin therapy (75–162 mg/day) 
as a secondary prevention strategy in 
those with diabetes and a history of 
ASCVD. A
10.34a For individuals with ASCVD 
and documented aspirin allergy, clopi-
dogrel (75 mg/day) should be used. B
10.34b The length of treatment 
with dual antiplatelet therapy using 
low-dose aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibi-
tor in individuals with diabetes after 
an acute coronary syndrome, acute 
ischemic stroke, or transient ischemic 
attack should be determined by an 
interprofessional team approach that 
includes a cardiovascular or neurolog-
ical specialist, respectively. E
10.35 Combination therapy with 81 mg 
aspirin daily plus 2.5 mg rivaroxa-
ban twice daily should be considered 
for individuals with stable coronary 
and/or peripheral artery disease (PAD) 
and low bleeding risk to prevent ma-
jor adverse limb and cardiovascular 
events. A
10.36 Aspirin therapy (75–162 mg/day) 
may be considered as a primary pre-
vention strategy in those with diabetes 
who are at increased cardiovascular 
risk after a comprehensive discussion 
with the individual on the benefits 
versus the comparable increased risk 
of bleeding. A
Risk Reduction
Aspirin has been shown to be effective 
in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality in high-risk individuals with pre-
vious MI or stroke (secondary prevention) 
and is strongly recommended. In primary 
prevention, however, among individuals 
with no previous cardiovascular events, its 
net benefit is more controversial (156,168).
Previous randomized controlled trials of 
aspirin, specifically in people with diabetes, 
failed to consistently show a significant re-
duction in overall ASCVD end points, raising 
questions about the efficacy of aspirin for 
primary prevention in people with diabe-
tes, although some sex differences were 
suggested (169–171).
The Antithrombotic Trialists’ Collabora-
tion published an individual participant–
level meta-analysis (172) of six large trials 
of aspirin for primary prevention in the 
general population. These trials collec-
tively enrolled over 95,000 participants, 
including almost 4,000 with diabetes. Over-
all, they found that aspirin reduced the risk 
of serious vascular events by 12% (relative 
risk 0.88 [95% CI 0.82–0.94]). The largest 
reduction was for nonfatal MI, with little 
effect on CHD death (relative risk 0.95 
[95% CI 0.78–1.15]) or total stroke.
Most recently, the ASCEND (A Study of 
Cardiovascular Events iN Diabetes) trial 
randomized 15,480 people with diabetes 
but no evident CVD to aspirin 100 mg 
daily or placebo (173). The primary effi-
cacy end point was vascular death, MI, 
stroke, or transient ischemic attack. The 
primary safety outcome was major bleeding 
(i.e., intracranial hemorrhage, sight- 
threatening bleeding in the eye, gastroin-
testinal bleeding, or other serious bleed-
ing). During a mean follow-up of 7.4 years, 
there was a significant 12% reduction in 
the primary efficacy end point (8.5% vs. 
9.6%; P = 0.01). In contrast, major bleeding 
was significantly increased from 3.2 to 
4.1% in the aspirin group (rate ratio 1.29; 
P = 0.003), with most of the excess being 
gastrointestinal bleeding and other extra-
cranial bleeding. There were no significant 
differences by sex, weight, or duration of 
diabetes or other baseline factors, includ-
ing ASCVD risk score.
Two other large, randomized trials of 
aspirin for primary prevention, in people 
without diabetes (ARRIVE [Aspirin to Re-
duce Risk of Initial Vascular Events]) (174) 
and in the elderly (ASPREE [Aspirin in Re-
ducing Events in the Elderly]) (175), in 
which 11% of participants had diabetes, 
found no benefit of aspirin on the pri-
mary efficacy end point and an increased 
risk of bleeding. In ARRIVE, with 12,546 
individuals over a period of 60 months of 
follow-up, the primary end point occurred 
in 4.29% vs. 4.48% of individuals in the 
aspirin versus placebo groups (HR 0.96 
[95% CI 0.81–1.13]; P = 0.60). Gastroin-
testinal bleeding events (characterized as 
mild) occurred in 0.97% of individuals in 
the aspirin group vs. 0.46% in the placebo 
group (HR 2.11 [95% CI 1.36–3.28]; P = 
0.0007). In ASPREE, which included 19,114 
individuals, for CVD (fatal CHD, MI, stroke, 
or hospitalization for heart failure) after a 
median of 4.7 years of follow-up, the rates 
per 1,000 person-years were 10.7 vs. 11.3 
events in aspirin vs. placebo groups (HR 
0.95 [95% CI 0.83–1.08]). The rate of major 
hemorrhage per 1,000 person-years was 
8.6 events versus 6.2 events, respectively 
(HR 1.38 [95% CI 1.18–1.62]; P < 0.001).
Thus, aspirin appears to have a modest 
effect on ischemic vascular events, with 
the absolute decrease in events depend-
ing on the underlying ASCVD risk. The 
main adverse effect is an increased risk of 
gastrointestinal bleeding. The excess risk 
may be as high as 5 per 1,000 per year in 
real-world settings. However, for adults 
with ASCVD risk >1% per year, the num-
ber of ASCVD events prevented will be 
similar to the number of episodes of 
bleeding induced, although these compli-
cations do not have equal effects on long- 
term health (176).
Recommendations for using aspirin as 
primary prevention include both men 
and women aged ≥50 years with diabe-
tes and at least one additional major risk 
factor (hypertension, dyslipidemia, smok-
ing, obesity, or CKD) who are not at in-
creased risk of bleeding (e.g., older age, 
anemia, or kidney disease) (177–180). 
Noninvasive imaging techniques such as 
coronary calcium scoring may help fur-
ther tailor aspirin therapy, particularly in 
those at low risk (181,182). For people 
>70 years of age (with or without diabe-
tes), the balance appears to have greater 
risk than benefit (173,175). Thus, for pri-
mary prevention, the use of aspirin needs 
to be carefully considered and generally 
may not be recommended. Aspirin may 
be considered in the context of high car-
diovascular risk with low bleeding risk 
but generally not in older adults. Aspi-
rin therapy for primary prevention may 
be considered in the context of shared 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S229 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

decision-making, which carefully weighs 
the cardiovascular benefits against the 
increase in risk of bleeding.
For people with documented ASCVD, 
use of aspirin for secondary prevention has 
far greater benefit than risk; for this indica-
tion, aspirin is still recommended (168).
Aspirin Use in People <50 Years of 
Age
Aspirin is not recommended for those at 
low risk of ASCVD (such as men and 
women aged <50 years with diabetes 
with no other major ASCVD risk factors), 
as the low benefit is likely to be out-
weighed by the risk of bleeding. Clinical 
judgment should be used for those at in-
termediate risk (younger individuals with 
one or more risk factors or older individ-
uals with no risk factors) until further re-
search is available. ASCVD risk factors 
include older age, hypertension, dyslipi-
demia, smoking, CKD, or obesity. Individ-
uals’ willingness to undergo long-term 
aspirin therapy should also be considered 
in shared decision-making (183). Aspirin 
use in individuals aged <21 years is gen-
erally contraindicated due to the associ-
ated risk of Reye syndrome.
Aspirin Dosing
Average daily dosages used in most clini-
cal trials involving people with diabetes 
ranged from 50 to 650 mg but were 
mostly in the range of 100–325 mg/day. 
There is little evidence to support any 
specific dose, but using the lowest possi-
ble dose may help to reduce side effects 
(184). In the ADAPTABLE (Aspirin Dosing: 
A Patient-Centric Trial Assessing Benefits 
and Long-term Effectiveness) trial of indi-
viduals with established CVD, 38% of 
whom had diabetes, there were no signif-
icant differences in cardiovascular events 
or major bleeding between individuals 
assigned to 81 mg and those assigned 
to 325 mg aspirin daily (185). In the 
U.S., the most common low-dose tablet is 
81 mg, and it appears that 75–162 mg/day 
is optimal.
Indications for P2Y12 Receptor 
Antagonist Use
Combination dual antiplatelet therapy with 
aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor antagonist is 
indicated after acute coronary syndromes 
and coronary revascularization with stent-
ing (186). Evidence supports use of either 
ticagrelor or clopidogrel if no percutane-
ous coronary intervention was performed 
and clopidogrel, ticagrelor, or prasugrel if 
a percutaneous coronary intervention was 
performed (187). In people with diabetes 
and prior MI (1–3 years before), adding ti-
cagrelor to aspirin significantly reduces the 
risk of recurrent ischemic events, including 
cardiovascular and CHD death (188). Simi-
larly, the addition of ticagrelor to aspirin 
reduced the risk of ischemic cardiovascular 
events compared with aspirin alone in 
people with diabetes and stable coronary 
artery disease (189,190). However, a higher 
incidence of major bleeding, including in-
tracranial hemorrhage, was noted with 
dual antiplatelet therapy. The net clinical 
benefit (ischemic benefit vs. bleeding risk) 
was improved with ticagrelor therapy in 
the large prespecified subgroup of indi-
viduals with history of percutaneous coro-
nary intervention, while no net benefit 
was seen in individuals without prior per-
cutaneous coronary intervention (190). 
However, early aspirin discontinuation 
compared with continued dual antiplate-
let therapy after coronary stenting may 
reduce the risk of bleeding without a cor-
responding increase in the risks of mortal-
ity and ischemic events, as shown in a 
prespecified analysis of people with dia-
betes enrolled in the TWILIGHT (Ticagre-
lor With Aspirin or Alone in High-Risk 
Patients After Coronary Intervention) trial 
and a meta-analysis (191,192).
Current guidelines recommend short- 
term dual antiplatelet therapy after high- 
risk transient ischemic attack and minor 
stroke (193). The indications for dual anti-
platelet therapy and length of treatment 
are rapidly evolving and should be deter-
mined by an interprofessional team ap-
proach that includes a cardiovascular or 
neurological specialist, as appropriate.
Combination Antiplatelet and 
Anticoagulation Therapy
Combination therapy with aspirin plus 
low-dose rivaroxaban may be considered 
for people with stable coronary and/or 
PAD to prevent major adverse limb and 
cardiovascular complications. In the 
COMPASS (Cardiovascular Outcomes for 
People Using Anticoagulation Strategies) 
trial of 27,395 individuals with established 
coronary artery disease and/or PAD, aspirin 
plus rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily was 
superior to aspirin plus placebo in the re-
duction of cardiovascular ischemic events, 
including major adverse limb events. The 
absolute benefits of combination therapy 
appeared larger in people with diabetes, 
who comprised 10,341 of the trial par-
ticipants (194,195). A similar treatment 
strategy was evaluated in the Vascular 
Outcomes Study of ASA (acetylsalicylic 
acid) Along with Rivaroxaban in Endovas-
cular or Surgical Limb Revascularization for 
Peripheral Artery Disease (VOYAGER PAD) 
trial (196), in which 6,564 individuals with 
PAD who had undergone revascularization 
were randomly assigned to receive rivarox-
aban 2.5 mg twice daily plus aspirin or pla-
cebo plus aspirin. Rivaroxaban treatment 
in this group of individuals was also associ-
ated with a significantly lower incidence of 
ischemic cardiovascular events, including 
major adverse limb events. However, an 
increased risk of major bleeding was noted 
with rivaroxaban added to aspirin treat-
ment in both COMPASS and VOYAGER 
PAD.
The risks and benefits of dual antiplatelet 
or antiplatelet plus anticoagulant treatment 
strategies should be thoroughly discussed 
with eligible individuals, and shared deci-
sion-making should be used to determine 
an individually appropriate treatment ap-
proach. This field of cardiovascular risk re-
duction is evolving rapidly, as are the 
definitions of optimal care for individuals 
with differing types and circumstances of 
cardiovascular complications.
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE
Screening
Recommendations
10.37a In asymptomatic individuals, 
routine screening for coronary artery 
disease is not recommended, as it does 
not improve outcomes as long as 
ASCVD risk factors are treated. A
10.37b Consider investigations for coro-
nary artery disease in the presence of 
any of the following: signs or symptoms 
of cardiac or associated vascular dis-
ease, including carotid bruits, transient 
ischemic attack, stroke, claudication, or 
PAD; or electrocardiographic abnormali-
ties (e.g., pathological Q waves). E
10.38a Adults with diabetes are at 
increased risk for the development 
of asymptomatic cardiac structural 
or functional abnormalities (stage B 
heart failure) or symptomatic (stage C) 
heart failure. Consider screening adults 
with diabetes by measuring a natri-
uretic peptide (B-type natriuretic pep-
tide [BNP] or N-terminal pro-BNP [NT- 
proBNP]) to facilitate prevention of 
stage C heart failure. B
S230 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

10.38b In asymptomatic individuals 
with diabetes and abnormal natriuretic 
peptide levels, echocardiography is 
recommended to identify stage B heart 
failure. A
10.39 In asymptomatic individuals 
with diabetes and age ≥65 years, 
microvascular disease in any location, 
or foot complications or any end-organ 
damage from diabetes, screening for 
PAD with ankle-brachial index testing 
is recommended if a PAD diagnosis 
would change management. B
Treatment
Recommendations
10.40a Among people with type 2 
diabetes who have established ASCVD 
or chronic kidney disease (CKD), a 
sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) 
inhibitor or glucagon-like peptide 1 re-
ceptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) with demon-
strated cardiovascular disease benefit 
is recommended as part of the com-
prehensive cardiovascular risk reduc-
tion and/or glucose-lowering treatment 
plans. A
10.40b In people with type 2 diabetes 
and established ASCVD or multiple 
ASCVD risk factors, or CKD, an SGLT2 in-
hibitor with demonstrated cardiovascu-
lar benefit is recommended to reduce 
the risk of cardiovascular events. A
10.40c In people with type 2 diabetes 
and established ASCVD or multiple risk 
factors for ASCVD, or CKD, a GLP-1 RA 
with demonstrated cardiovascular ben-
efit is recommended to reduce the 
risk of cardiovascular events. A
10.40d In people with type 2 diabe-
tes and established ASCVD or multi-
ple risk factors for ASCVD, combined 
therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor with 
demonstrated cardiovascular benefit 
and a GLP-1 RA with demonstrated 
cardiovascular benefit may be con-
sidered for additive reduction of the 
risk of adverse cardiovascular and 
kidney events. B
10.41a In people with type 2 diabe-
tes and established heart failure with 
either preserved or reduced ejection 
fraction, an SGLT2 inhibitor (including 
SGLT1/2 inhibitor) with proven bene-
fit in this population is recommended 
to reduce the risk of worsening heart 
failure and cardiovascular death. A
10.41b In people with type 2 diabe-
tes and established heart failure with 
either preserved or reduced ejection 
fraction, an SGLT2 inhibitor with 
proven benefit in this population is 
recommended to improve quality of 
life. A
10.42 For individuals with type 2 di-
abetes and CKD with albuminuria 
treated with maximum tolerated doses 
of ACE inhibitor or ARB, recommend 
treatment with a nonsteroidal MRA 
with demonstrated benefit to improve 
cardiovascular outcomes and reduce 
the risk of CKD progression. A
10.43 In individuals with diabetes 
aged ≥55 years with established 
ASCVD or multiple ASCVD risk factors, 
ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is rec-
ommended to reduce the risk of car-
diovascular events. A
10.44a In individuals with diabetes 
and asymptomatic (stage B) heart 
failure, an interprofessional approach 
to optimize guideline-directed medical 
therapy, which should include a cardio-
vascular disease specialist, is rec-
ommended to reduce the risk for 
progression to symptomatic (stage C) 
heart failure. A
10.44b In individuals with diabetes 
and asymptomatic (stage B) heart 
failure, ACE inhibitors or ARBs and 
β-blockers are recommended to re-
duce the risk for progression to symp-
tomatic (stage C) heart failure. A
10.44c In individuals with type 2 di-
abetes and asymptomatic (stage B) 
heart failure or with high risk of or 
established cardiovascular disease, 
treatment with an SGLT inhibitor with 
proven heart failure prevention bene-
fit A or a GLP-1 RA with heart failure 
prevention benefit B is recommended 
to reduce the risk of hospitalization 
for heart failure.
10.44d In adults with type 2 diabe-
tes, obesity, and symptomatic heart 
failure with preserved ejection fraction 
(HFpEF), the treatment plan should 
include a dual GIP/GLP-1 RA A or a 
GLP-1 RA B with demonstrated benefit 
for reduction in heart failure events.
10.44e In adults with type 2 diabetes, 
obesity, and symptomatic HFpEF, the 
treatment plan should include a dual 
GIP/GLP-1 RA or a GLP-1 RA with 
demonstrated benefit for reduction in 
heart failure symptoms. A
10.44f In individuals with type 2 di-
abetes and CKD, recommend treat-
ment with a nonsteroidal MRA with 
demonstrated benefit to reduce the 
risk of hospitalization for heart fail-
ure. A
10.44g In individuals with diabetes, 
guideline-directed medical therapy for 
myocardial infarction and symptomatic 
stage C heart failure is recommended 
with ACE inhibitors or ARBs (including 
ARBs and neprilysin inhibitors), MRAs, 
β-blockers, and SGLT2 inhibitors. A
10.44h In individuals with diabetes 
and symptomatic stage C heart failure 
with ejection fraction >40%, a nonste-
roidal MRA with proven benefit in re-
ducing worsening heart failure events 
is recommended. A A nonsteroidal MRA 
should not be used with an MRA.
10.45 In people with type 2 diabetes 
with stable heart failure, metformin 
may be continued for glucose lowering 
if eGFR remains >30 mL/min/1.73 m2 
but should be avoided in unstable or 
hospitalized individuals with heart fail-
ure. B
10.46 Educate individuals with diabe-
tes who are at risk for developing dia-
betic ketoacidosis and who are treated 
with SGLT inhibition on the risks and 
signs of ketoacidosis and methods of 
risk mitigation management, provide 
them with appropriate tools for ketone 
measurement (i.e., serum β-hydroxybu-
tyrate), and discourage a ketogenic eat-
ing pattern. E
Cardiac Testing
Candidates for advanced or invasive car-
diac testing include those with 1) symp-
toms or signs of cardiac or vascular 
disease and 2) an abnormal resting elec-
trocardiogram (ECG). Exercise ECG testing 
without or with echocardiography may 
be used as the initial test. In adults with 
diabetes ≥40 years of age, measurement 
of coronary artery calcium is also reason-
able for cardiovascular risk assessment. 
Pharmacologic stress echocardiography 
or nuclear imaging should be considered 
in individuals with diabetes in whom rest-
ing ECG abnormalities preclude exercise 
stress testing (e.g., left bundle branch 
block or ST-T abnormalities). In addition, 
individuals who require stress testing and 
are unable to exercise should undergo 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S231 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

pharmacologic stress echocardiography 
or nuclear imaging.
Screening Asymptomatic Individuals 
for Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular 
Disease
The screening of asymptomatic individuals 
with high ASCVD risk is not recommended, 
in part because these high-risk people 
should already be receiving intensive med-
ical therapy—an approach that provides 
benefits similar to those of invasive revascu-
larization (197,198). A randomized trial 
demonstrated no clinical benefit of routine 
screening with adenosine-stress radionu-
clide myocardial perfusion imaging in 
asymptomatic people with type 2 diabe-
tes and normal ECGs (199). Another ran-
domized study showed that routine 
screening with coronary computed to-
mography angiography did not reduce 
the composite rate of all-cause mortality, 
nonfatal MI, or unstable angina in asymp-
tomatic people with type 1 or type 2 dia-
betes (200). Studies have also found that 
a risk factor–based approach to the initial 
diagnostic evaluation and subsequent 
follow-up for coronary artery disease 
fails to identify which people with type 2 
diabetes who will have silent ischemia on 
screening tests (201,202).
Any benefit of noninvasive coronary 
artery disease screening methods, such 
as computed tomography calcium scor-
ing, to identify subgroups for different 
treatment strategies remains unproven 
in asymptomatic people with diabetes, 
though research is ongoing. Coronary 
calcium scoring in asymptomatic people 
with diabetes may help in risk stratifica-
tion (203,204) and provide reasoning for 
treatment intensification and/or guiding 
informed individual decision-making and 
willingness for medication initiation and 
participation. However, their routine use 
leads to radiation exposure and may re-
sult in unnecessary invasive testing, such 
as coronary angiography and revasculari-
zation procedures. The ultimate balance 
of benefit, cost, and risk of such an ap-
proach in asymptomatic individuals re-
mains controversial, particularly in the 
modern setting of aggressive ASCVD risk 
factor management.
Screening for Asymptomatic Heart 
Failure in People With Diabetes
People with diabetes are at an increased 
risk for developing heart failure, as shown in 
multiple longitudinal, observational studies 
(205,206). This association is not only ob-
served in people with type 2 diabetes but 
also evident in people with type 1 diabe-
tes (205,206). In a large multinational co-
hort of 750,000 people with diabetes 
without established CVD, heart failure 
and CKD were the most frequent first 
manifestations of cardiovascular or kid-
ney disease (207). For a detailed review 
of screening, diagnosis, and treatment 
recommendations of heart failure in peo-
ple with diabetes, the reader is further re-
ferred to the ADA report “Heart Failure: 
An Underappreciated Complication of Dia-
betes. A Consensus Report of the American 
Diabetes Association” (16).
People with diabetes are at particularly 
high risk for progression from asymptom-
atic stage A and B to symptomatic stage C 
and D heart failure (208,209). Identifica-
tion, risk stratification, and early treatment 
of risk factors in people with diabetes and 
asymptomatic stages of heart failure re-
duce the risk for progression to symptom-
atic heart failure (210,211). In people with 
type 2 diabetes, measurement of natri-
uretic peptides, including B-type natriuretic 
peptide (BNP) or N-terminal pro-BNP (NT- 
proBNP), identifies people at risk for heart 
failure development, progression of symp-
toms, and heart failure–related mortality 
(212–214). A similar association and prog-
nostic values of increased NT-proBNP with 
increased cardiovascular and all-cause mor-
tality has been reported in people with 
type 1 diabetes (215). Results from several 
randomized controlled trials revealed that 
more intensive treatment of risk factors in 
people with increased levels of natriuretic 
peptides reduces the risk for symptomatic 
heart failure, heart failure hospitalization, 
and newly diagnosed left ventricular dys-
function (211,216,217).
Consider screening asymptomatic adults 
with diabetes for the development of 
cardiac structural or functional abnormali-
ties (stage B heart failure) by measuring 
BNP or NT-proBNP. The biomarker 
threshold for abnormal values is BNP 
level ≥50 pg/mL and NT-proBNP level 
≥125 pg/mL. Use clinical judgement when 
evaluating abnormal levels of natriuretic 
peptide and consider possible competing 
diagnoses that may lead to increased levels 
of natriuretic peptide, such as renal insuffi-
ciency, pulmonary hypertension, chronic 
obstructive lung disease, obstructive sleep 
apnea, ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, 
and anemia. Conversely, natriuretic pep-
tide levels may be decreased in people 
with obesity, which impairs sensitivity of 
testing.
In people with diabetes and an abnor-
mal natriuretic peptide level, echocardi-
ography is recommended as the next 
step to screen for structural heart disease 
and echocardiographic Doppler indices 
for evidence of diastolic dysfunction and 
increased filling pressures (218). At this 
stage, an interprofessional approach, which 
should include a CVD specialist, is recom-
mended to implement a guideline-directed 
medical treatment strategy, which may 
reduce the risk of progression to symp-
tomatic stages of heart failure (210). The 
recommendations for screening and treat-
ment of heart failure in people with diabe-
tes discussed in this section are consistent 
with the ADA consensus report on heart 
failure (16) and with current American 
Heart Association/American College of 
Cardiology/Heart Failure Society of America 
guidelines for the management of heart 
failure (219).
Screening for Asymptomatic 
Peripheral Artery Disease in People 
With Diabetes
The risk for PAD in people with diabetes 
is higher than that in people without dia-
betes (220–222). In the PAD Awareness, 
Risk, and Treatment: New Resources for 
Survival (PARTNERS) program, 30% of peo-
ple aged 50–69 years with a history of 
cigarette smoking or diabetes, or aged 
≥70 years regardless of risk factors, had 
PAD (223). Similarly, in other screening stud-
ies, 26% of people with diabetes have been 
shown to have PAD (224), and diabetes in-
creased the odds of having PAD by 85% 
(225). Notably, classical symptoms of claudi-
cation are uncommon, and almost half of 
people with newly diagnosed PAD were 
asymptomatic (223). Many individuals with 
PAD remain asymptomatic either because 
they limit physical activity to avoid claudi-
cation symptoms or because a comorbid 
condition prevents them from reaching a 
threshold of activity to provoke symptoms. 
Risk factors associated with an increased 
risk for PAD in people with diabetes in-
clude age, smoking, hypertension, dysli-
pidemia, worse glycemic management, 
longer duration of diabetes, neuropathy, 
and retinopathy as well as a prior history 
of CVD (226,227). In addition, the pres-
ence of microvascular disease is associ-
ated with adverse outcomes in people 
with PAD, including an increased risk for 
future limb amputation (228,229). While 
S232 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

a positive screening test for PAD in an 
asymptomatic population has been associ-
ated with increased cardiovascular event 
rates (230,231), prospective, randomized 
studies addressing whether screening for 
PAD in people with diabetes improves 
long-term limb outcomes and cardiovascu-
lar event rates are limited. In the random-
ized controlled Viborg Vascular (VIVA) trial, 
50,156 participants, of whom approxi-
mately 10% had diabetes, were random-
ized to combined vascular screening for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm, PAD, and hy-
pertension or to no screening. Although 
the number needed to invite for screen-
ing to prevent one death was close to 
170, vascular screening was associated 
with increased pharmacologic therapy 
(antiplatelet, lipid-lowering, and antihy-
pertensive therapy), reduced in-hospital 
time for PAD and coronary artery disease, 
and reduced mortality (232). Therefore, 
screening is recommended for asymp-
tomatic PAD using ankle-brachial index in 
people with diabetes in whom a diagnosis 
of PAD may help further intensify phar-
macologic therapies and improve cardio-
vascular and limb outcomes, such as the 
intensification of LDL-lowering therapies 
(233), the initiation of low-dose rivaroxa-
ban therapy (234), or the initiation of 
GLP-1 RA, as recent clinical trial evidence 
supports a symptomatic benefit of GLP-1 
RA in people with diabetes and PAD (235). 
These people include those with age 
≥65 years, diabetes with duration ≥10 years, 
microvascular disease, clinical evidence of 
foot complications, or any end-organ dam-
age from diabetes.
Lifestyle and Pharmacologic 
Interventions
Intensive lifestyle intervention focusing 
on weight loss through decreased caloric 
intake and increased physical activity, as 
performed in the Look AHEAD (Action 
for Health in Diabetes) trial, may be con-
sidered for improving glucose manage-
ment, fitness, and some ASCVD risk factors 
(236). Individuals at increased ASCVD risk 
should receive statin, ACE inhibitor, or ARB 
therapy if the individual has hypertension, 
and possibly aspirin, unless there are con-
traindications to a particular drug class.
Clear cardiovascular benefits exist for 
ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy in people 
with diabetes. The Heart Outcomes Pre-
vention Evaluation (HOPE) study random-
ized 9,297 individuals aged ≥55 years 
with a history of vascular disease or 
diabetes plus one other cardiovascular 
risk factor to either ramipril or placebo. 
Ramipril significantly reduced cardiovas-
cular and all-cause mortality, MI, and 
stroke (237). ACE inhibitors or ARB ther-
apy also have well-established long-term 
benefit in people with diabetes and CKD 
or hypertension, and these agents are rec-
ommended for hypertension management 
in people with known ASCVD (particularly 
coronary artery disease) (66,67,238). Peo-
ple with type 2 diabetes and CKD should 
be considered for treatment with finere-
none to reduce cardiovascular outcomes 
and the risk of CKD progression (239–242). 
β-Blockers should be used in individuals 
with active angina or HFrEF and for 3 years 
after MI in those with preserved left ven-
tricular function (243,244).
Glucose-Lowering Therapies and 
Cardiovascular Outcomes
In 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Adminis-
tration (FDA) issued guidance for industry 
to perform cardiovascular outcomes trials 
for all new medications for the treatment 
of type 2 diabetes amid concerns of in-
creased cardiovascular risk (245). Diabe-
tes medications approved prior to 2008 
were not subject to the guidance. This 
guidance was revised in May 2023 (246).
SGLT2 Inhibitors
Results of large cardiovascular outcome 
trials of empagliflozin (10 mg or 25 mg 
daily) and canagliflozin (100 or 300 mg 
daily) showed that treatment with ei-
ther drug reduced rates of MI, stroke, or 
cardiovascular death. While there was an 
increased risk of lower-limb amputation 
with canagliflozin in one trial (247), no sig-
nificant increase in lower-limb amputa-
tions, fractures, AKI, or hyperkalemia was 
seen in other trials of canagliflozin (248). 
The major cardiovascular outcome trial of 
dapagliflozin (10 mg daily) did not show a 
reduction in the coprimary outcome of 
MI, stroke, or cardiovascular death but did 
show a significantly lower rate of the co-
primary composite outcome of hospitali-
zation for heart failure or cardiovascular 
death, which was driven by its effect on 
hospitalization for heart failure. Cardiovas-
cular outcome trials of ertugliflozin and bex-
agliflozin have not demonstrated evidence 
of cardiovascular risk reduction (249,250).
GLP-1 Receptor Agonists
Results of trials with the GLP-1 RAs lira-
glutide (once daily) and semaglutide, 
albiglutide, efpeglenatide, and dulaglutide 
(once weekly) have all shown evidence of 
a reduction in major atherosclerotic cardio-
vascular outcomes (MI, stroke, or cardiovas-
cular death) (251–256). An oral formulation 
of semaglutide has also demonstrated car-
diovascular benefit (257–259). Lixisenatide 
and extended-release exenatide were not 
superior to placebo with respect to the pri-
mary end point of cardiovascular outcomes 
(260) and therefore are not recommended 
for CVD risk reduction.
In summary, the numerous large ran-
domized controlled trials report statistically 
significant reductions in cardiovascular 
events for three of the FDA-approved 
SGLT2 inhibitors (empagliflozin, canagli-
flozin, and dapagliflozin) and four FDA- 
approved GLP-1 RAs (liraglutide, albiglutide 
[although that agent was removed from 
the market for business reasons], semaglu-
tide [subcutaneous and oral formulations], 
and dulaglutide). Cardiovascular outcome 
trials of the dual glucose-dependent insuli-
notropic polypeptide (GIP)/GLP-1 RA tirze-
patide are ongoing (261).
Meta-analyses of the trials reported to 
date suggest that GLP-1 RAs and SGLT2 
inhibitors reduce risk of atherosclerotic 
major adverse cardiovascular events to a 
comparable degree in people with type 2 
diabetes and established ASCVD (262,263). 
SGLT2 inhibitors and GLP-1RA also reduce 
risk of heart failure hospitalization and 
progression of kidney disease in people 
with established ASCVD, multiple risk fac-
tors for ASCVD, or albuminuric kidney dis-
ease (264,265). In people with type 2 
diabetes and established ASCVD, multiple 
ASCVD risk factors, or CKD, an SGLT2 in-
hibitor with demonstrated cardiovascular 
benefit or a GLP-1 RA with demonstrated 
cardiovascular benefit or both is recom-
mended to reduce the risk of major ad-
verse cardiovascular events and/or heart 
failure hospitalization. Emerging data sug-
gest that use of both classes of drugs will 
provide an additive cardiovascular and 
kidney outcomes benefit; thus, combina-
tion therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor and 
a GLP-1 RA may be considered to pro-
vide the complementary outcomes ben-
efits associated with these classes of 
medication (254), which are largely inde-
pendent of glycemic management. The 
efficacy and safety of SGLT2 inhibitors 
for reduction of cardiovascular and kidney 
events in people with type 1 diabetes is 
being investigated and is not currently rec-
ommended due to a significant increase of 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S233 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

diabetic ketoacidosis and euglycemic ke-
toacidosis (266).
Other Classes
Cardiovascular outcomes trials of dipep-
tidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors have 
not shown cardiovascular benefits relative 
to placebo. The CAROLINA (Cardiovascular 
Outcome Study of Linagliptin Versus Gli-
mepiride in Type 2 Diabetes) study dem-
onstrated noninferiority between a DPP-4 
inhibitor, linagliptin, and a sulfonylurea, 
glimepiride, on cardiovascular outcomes 
despite lower rates of hypoglycemia in 
the linagliptin treatment group (267).
Figure 10.5—Overview of recommendations for the prevention and treatment of symptomatic heart failure in people with diabetes. ACEi, ACE in-
hibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; ARNI, angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor; BNP, B-type natriuretic peptide; NT-proBNP, N-terminal 
pro-B–type natriuretic peptide; CKD, chronic kidney disease; CVD, cardiovascular disease; EF, ejection fraction; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtra-
tion rate; GDMT, guideline-directed medical therapy; GIP/GLP-1 RA, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide-1 re-
ceptor agonist; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist; HF, heart failure; HFmrEF, heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction; 
HFpEF, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; HFrEF, heart failure with reduced ejection fraction; HTN, hypertension; MI, myocardial infarc-
tion; MRA, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist; nsMRA, nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist; SGLT1/2i, sodium–glucose cotrans-
porter 1 and 2 inhibitor; SGLT2i, sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor; TTE, transthoracic echocardiography; UACR, urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio. 
Prevention and Treatment of Heart 
Failure
Prevention of Symptomatic Heart Failure
ACE Inhibitors or ARBs and β-Blockers. Early 
primary prevention strategies and treat-
ment of associated risk factors reduce in-
cident, symptomatic heart failure and 
should include lifestyle intervention with 
nutrition, physical activity, weight manage-
ment, and smoking cessation (268–271) 
(Fig. 10.5). The vast majority of incident 
heart failure is preceded by hypertension; 
up to 91% of all new heart failure develop-
ment in the Framingham cohort occurred 
in people with a previous diagnosis of 
hypertension (272). Therefore, manage-
ment of hypertension constitutes a key 
goal in people with diabetes and stage A 
or B heart failure. For example, in the UK 
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) trial, 
intensive blood pressure management in 
people with type 2 diabetes reduced the 
risk for heart failure by 56% (273). Inten-
sive treatment of hypertension in people 
with diabetes in the BPROAD trial led to a 
34% reduction in treatment or hospitali-
zation for heart failure (HR 0.66, 95% CI 
0.41–1.04), a finding that parallels obser-
vations from the SPRINT trial where the 
risk for development of incident heart 
Is TTE available?
HFrEF GDMT
• Refer to cardiology
• SGLT2i or SGLT1/2i with
demonstrated benefit
• ARNI or ACEi/ARB if ARNI
not tolerated
• β-Blocker with 
demonstrated benefit
• MRA5 with demonstrated 
benefit
HF prevention strategies
• SGLT2i1,4
•
4
• If CKD present, consider
nsMRA3, SGLT1/2i2
Consider screening with 
BNP/NT-proBNP
NT
?
If CKD present, 
consider
• SGLT2i1 or 
SGLT1/2i with 
demonstrated 
benefit
• nsMRA3
Consider 
echocardiogram
• Refer to 
cardiology
• β-Blocker with 
demonstrated 
benefit
• ACEi or ARB
ACEi or ARB if 
HTN or CKD
HFmrEF/HFpEF GDMT
• Refer to cardiology
• SGLT2i or SGLT1/2i with
demonstrated benefit
• If obesity,
demonstrated benefit
• ACEi or ARB if hypertension, 
prior MI or CKD
• nsMRA6
1. 
73 m
2. 
73 m
3. 
, 
5.
4. 
5. 
 risk.
6. 
73 m, 
73 m, 
Symptomatic HF
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
S234 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

failure decreased by 36% (42,274). As 
discussed in the HYPERTENSION AND BLOOD PRES-
SURE MANAGEMENT section above, use of ACE 
inhibitors or ARBs is the preferred treat-
ment strategy for management of hyper-
tension in people with diabetes, particularly 
in the presence of albuminuria or coronary 
artery disease. People with diabetes and 
stage B heart failure who remain asymp-
tomatic but have evidence of structural 
heart disease, including history of MI, acute 
coronary syndrome, or left ventricular 
ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤40%, should be 
treated with ACE inhibitors or ARBs plus 
β-blockers according to current treatment 
guidelines (219). In the landmark Studies 
of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD) 
study, in which 15% of people had diabetes, 
treatment with enalapril reduced incident 
heart failure in people with asymptomatic 
left ventricular dysfunction by 20% (275). In 
the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement 
(SAVE) study, which enrolled asymptom-
atic people with reduced LVEF after MI, 
including 23% people with diabetes, treat-
ment with captopril reduced the develop-
ment of heart failure by 37% (276). 
Subsequent retrospective analyses from 
both trials revealed that concomitant use 
of β-blockers was associated with de-
creased risk of progression to symp-
tomatic heart failure (277,278). The 
Carvedilol Post-Infarct Survival Control in 
Left Ventricular Dysfunction (CAPRICORN) 
study randomized people with a history 
of MI and reduced LVEF to treatment 
with carvedilol (279). Approximately half 
of the study participants were asymptom-
atic, and 23% of study participants had a 
history of diabetes. Treatment with carve-
dilol reduced mortality by 23%, and there 
was a 14% risk reduction for heart failure 
hospitalization. Finally, in the Reversal of 
Ventricular Remodeling With Toprol-XL 
(REVERT) trial, in which 45% of the people 
enrolled had diabetes, metoprolol im-
proved adverse cardiac remodeling in 
asymptomatic individuals with an LVEF 
<40% and mild left ventricular dilatation 
(280).
SGLT Inhibitors. SGLT2 inhibitors consti-
tute a key treatment approach to reduce 
ASCVD and heart failure outcomes in 
people with diabetes. People with type 2 
diabetes and increased cardiovascular 
risk or established CVD should be treated 
with an SGLT2 inhibitor to prevent the 
development of incident heart failure. In 
the EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial, only 10% 
of study participants had a prior history 
of heart failure, and treatment with em-
pagliflozin reduced the relative risk for 
hospitalization from heart failure by 35% 
(281). In the CANVAS Program, hospitali-
zation from heart failure was reduced by 
33% in people allocated to canagliflozin, 
and only 14% of individuals enrolled had 
a prior history of heart failure (247). In 
the DECLARE-TIMI 58 study, only 10% of 
study participants had a prior history of 
heart failure, and dapagliflozin reduced 
cardiovascular mortality and hospitaliza-
tion for heart failure by 17%, which was 
consistent across multiple study subgroups 
regardless of a prior history of heart failure 
(282). Finally, in the Effect of Sotagliflozin 
on Cardiovascular and Renal Events in 
Participants With Type 2 Diabetes and 
Moderate Renal Impairment Who Are at 
Cardiovascular Risk (SCORED) trial, ran-
domization to the SGLT1/2 inhibitor so-
tagliflozin reduced the primary outcome 
of death from cardiovascular causes, hospi-
talizations for heart failure, and urgent vis-
its for heart failure in people with type 2 
diabetes, CKD, and risk for CVD (283). 
Therefore, SGLT inhibitor treatment is 
recommended in asymptomatic people 
with type 2 diabetes at risk or with estab-
lished CVD to prevent incident heart fail-
ure and hospitalization from heart failure.
GLP-1 Receptor Agonists. A recently pub-
lished meta-analysis of GLP-1 RA regis-
tration trials, including those for the 
commonly used medications dulaglu-
tide, liraglutide, and semaglutide (both 
subcutaneous and oral), demonstrated a 
14% relative reduction in the risk of hos-
pitalization for heart failure (HR 0.86, 95% 
CI 0.79–0.93) (255). The trials included 
in these meta-analyses included people 
with type 2 diabetes and established 
ASCVD or at high risk for ASCVD but were 
not designed as trials of individuals with 
established heart failure. In addition, 
heart failure was a prespecified outcome 
of the randomized, placebo-controlled 
trial of semaglutide in people with type 2 
diabetes and CKD and found a significant 
reduction in the risk of heart failure 
among those randomized to active sema-
glutide (284). Thus, there is sufficient evi-
dence to recommend the use of GLP-1 
RAs to prevent the development of heart 
failure in individuals with type 2 diabetes 
and risk factors for ASCVD. Individuals 
at even higher risk of heart failure, such 
as those with established ASCVD or 
CKD, are likely to see a larger absolute 
risk reduction than healthier individuals 
at relatively lower cardiovascular and 
kidney risk.
Finerenone. Finerenone is a nonsteroidal 
MRA and has recently been studied in 
people with diabetes and CKD, including 
the Finerenone in Reducing Kidney Failure 
and Disease Progression in Diabetic Kidney 
Disease (FIDELIO-DKD) and the Efficacy 
and Safety of Finerenone in Subjects With 
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and the Clinical 
Diagnosis of Diabetic Kidney Disease 
(FIGARO-DKD) studies. In FIDELIO-DKD, fi-
nerenone was compared with placebo for 
the primary outcome of kidney failure, a 
sustained decrease of at least 40% in the 
eGFR from baseline, or death from renal 
causes in people with type 2 diabetes and 
CKD (285). A prespecified secondary out-
come was death from cardiovascular causes, 
nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or hospitali-
zation for heart failure, which was re-
duced by 13% in the finerenone group. 
The incidence of heart failure hospitali-
zation occurred less in the finerenone- 
treated group, and only 7.7% of study 
participants had a prior history of heart 
failure. In the FIGARO-DKD trial, finere-
none reduced the primary outcome of 
death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal 
MI, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for 
heart failure (HR 0.87 [95% CI 0.76–0.98]; 
P = 0.03) in people with type 2 diabetes 
and CKD (240). Only 7.8% of all partici-
pants had a prior history of heart failure, 
and the incidence of hospitalization for 
heart failure was reduced in the finerenone- 
allocated treatment arm (HR 0.71 [95% CI 
0.56–0.90]). Owing to these observa-
tions, treatment with finerenone is rec-
ommended in people with type 2 diabetes 
and CKD to reduce the risk of progression 
from stage A heart failure to symptomatic 
incident heart failure.
Treatment of Symptomatic Heart 
Failure
In general, current guideline-directed 
medical therapy for a history of MI and 
symptomatic stage C and D heart failure 
in people with diabetes is similar to that 
for people without diabetes. At these 
symptomatic stages of heart failure, a col-
laborative approach with a cardiovascular 
specialist is recommended. The treatment 
recommendations are detailed in current 
2022 American Heart Association/Ameri-
can College of Cardiology/Heart Failure 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S235 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Society of America guidelines for the 
management of heart failure (12,13).
SGLT Inhibitors
The SGLT2 inhibitors empagliflozin, cana-
gliflozin, and dapagliflozin reduce the inci-
dence of heart failure and improve heart 
failure–related outcomes, including hos-
pitalization for heart failure and heart 
failure–related symptoms, in people with 
diabetes with preserved or reduced ejec-
tion fraction (242,247,248,281,286–294). 
The results of these clinical trials have 
been extensively outlined in the 2024 
ADA “Standards of Care in Diabetes” 
(295). These results led to trials of empagli-
flozin and dapagliflozin in individuals with 
symptomatic heart failure (both HFrEF and 
HFpEF), often in populations with and 
without diabetes.
The DAPA-HF trial specifically evalu-
ated the effects of dapagliflozin 10 mg 
daily on the primary outcome of a com-
posite of worsening heart failure or car-
diovascular death in individuals with New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) class II, III, 
or IV heart failure and an ejection fraction 
of 40% or less (287). Dapagliflozin treat-
ment had a lower risk of the primary out-
come (HR 0.74 [95% CI 0.65–0.85]), lower 
risk of first worsening heart failure event 
(HR 0.70 [95% CI 0.59–0.83]), and lower 
risk of cardiovascular death (HR 0.82 
[95% CI 0.69–0.98]) compared with pla-
cebo. The effect of dapagliflozin on the 
primary outcome was consistent regard-
less of the presence or absence of type 2 
diabetes (287). Similar results were ob-
tained in clinical trials with empagliflozin 
(291). In Empagliflozin Outcome Trial in 
Patients With Chronic Heart Failure With 
Preserved Ejection Fraction (EMPEROR- 
Preserved), the primary outcome of car-
diovascular death or hospitalization for 
heart failure was reduced in adults with 
NYHA functional class I–IV and chronic 
HFpEF (LVEF >40%), extending the previ-
ously seen benefit in people with heart 
failure to those with preserved ejection 
fraction irrespective of the presence of 
type 2 diabetes (242). A similar benefit 
for heart failure outcomes was seen in 
the Dapagliflozin Evaluation to Improve 
the Lives of Patients with Preserved Ejec-
tion Fraction Heart Failure (DELIVER) trial 
for dapagliflozin in people with mildly re-
duced or preserved ejection fraction (290). 
In the Effect of Sotagliflozin on Cardio-
vascular Events in Patients With Type 2 
Diabetes Post Worsening Heart Failure 
(SOLOIST-WHF) trial, sotagliflozin, a com-
bined SGLT1/2 inhibitor, initiated during 
or shortly after hospitalization for heart 
failure in people with diabetes, also re-
duced the risk for the primary end point 
of deaths from cardiovascular causes and 
hospitalizations and urgent visits for heart 
failure (296). A large meta-analysis (297) in-
cluding the EMPEROR-Reduced, EMPEROR- 
Preserved, DAPA-HF, DELIVER, and SOLOIST- 
WHF trials included 21,947 individuals and 
demonstrated reduced risk for the com-
posite of cardiovascular death or hospi-
talization for heart failure, cardiovascular 
death, first hospitalization for heart fail-
ure, and all-cause mortality. The findings 
on the studied end points were consistent 
in both trials of heart failure with mildly 
reduced or preserved ejection fraction 
and in all five trials combined. In addition 
to the hospitalization and mortality bene-
fit in people with heart failure, SGLT2 
inhibitors improve clinical stability and 
functional status in individuals with heart 
failure (289,292–294). Collectively, these 
studies indicate that SGLT2 inhibitors re-
duce the risk for heart failure hospitaliza-
tion and cardiovascular death in a wide 
range of people with heart failure inde-
pendently of glucose-lowering activity. 
Therefore, in people with type 2 diabetes 
and established HFpEF or HFrEF, an SGLT2 
inhibitor with proven benefit in this popu-
lation is recommended to reduce the risk 
of worsening heart failure and cardiovas-
cular death. In addition, an SGLT2 inhibitor 
is recommended in this population to im-
prove symptoms, physical limitations, and 
quality of life.
One concern with expanded use of 
SGLT inhibition is the infrequent but seri-
ous risk of diabetic ketoacidosis, including 
the atypical presentation of euglycemic 
ketoacidosis. While multiple pathways have 
been proposed to explain the propensity 
to excess ketone body production with 
SGLT2 inhibitors (e.g., increases in gluca-
gon levels), generally the occurrence of 
other risk factors or situations is needed 
to precipitate the onset of diabetic ketoa-
cidosis or euglycemic ketoacidosis, includ-
ing, but not limited to, a systemic illness, 
insulin pump malfunctions, significant re-
duction in insulin doses, and prolonged 
periods of fasting or carbohydrate restric-
tion. Although there were low rates of ke-
toacidosis in the cardiovascular and heart 
failure outcomes trials evaluating SGLT in-
hibition, these studies excluded individu-
als with type 1 diabetes and/or recent 
history of diabetic ketoacidosis (296,298). 
To decrease the risk of ketoacidosis when 
using SGLT inhibition in people with dia-
betes, it is recommended that clinicians 
assess the underlying susceptibility; provide 
education regarding the risks, symptoms, 
and prevention strategies; and prescribe 
home monitoring supplies for β-hydroxy-
butyrate (299,300). Assessment of suscepti-
bility, education, and provision of monitoring 
supplies should reoccur throughout the du-
ration of SGLT inhibitor treatment as core 
preventative strategies to minimize the risk 
of ketoacidosis (301,302).
Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonists
Consistent with heart failure guidelines, 
an MRA like spironolactone or eplerenone 
is recommended in people with HFrEF 
(ejection fraction ≤40%) and type 2 diabe-
tes (12,13).
The selective nonsteroidal MRA finere-
none was examined in the Study to Evalu-
ate the Efficacy (Effect on Disease) and 
Safety of Finerenone in Participants With 
Heart Failure and Left Ventricular Ejection 
Fraction (Proportion of Blood Expelled 
Per Heart Stroke) Greater or Equal to 40% 
(FINEARTS-HF) trial of people with symp-
tomatic HFpEF (ejection fraction ≥40%) 
and was found to reduce the risk of total 
number of worsening heart failure 
events or cardiovascular death by 16% 
(rate ratio 0.84, 95% CI 0.74–0.95) (303). 
Of the enrolled participants, 41% had 
type 2 diabetes. Thus, finerenone im-
proves cardiovascular and kidney out-
comes in people with type 2 diabetes. 
Addition of finerenone can be considered 
to improve heart failure outcomes in indi-
viduals with symptomatic HFpEF. In people 
with type 2 diabetes and CKD with albu-
minuria treated with maximum tolerated 
doses of ACE inhibitor or ARB, the addition 
of finerenone should be considered to im-
prove cardiovascular outcomes, including 
the risk for heart failure hospitalization, 
and to reduce the risk of CKD progression.
GLP-1 RA and Dual GIP/GLP-1 RA
Increasing evidence has demonstrated the 
benefits of GLP-1 RA or dual GIP/GLP-1 
RA on symptoms and outcomes for peo-
ple with HFpEF and obesity, and while 
most people with HFpEF have obesity, ap-
proximately 45% have diabetes (304,305). 
The Semaglutide Treatment Effect in 
People with Obesity and HFpEF and Dia-
betes Mellitus (STEP-HFpEF DM) trial eval-
uated whether the GLP-1 RA semaglutide 
S236 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

improves symptoms related to heart fail-
ure in people with type 2 diabetes (306). 
In the study, 616 people with type 2 dia-
betes and a BMI of 30 or greater with 
HFpEF were assigned to receive once- 
weekly semaglutide at a dose of 2.4 mg 
or placebo. The primary end point was 
the change in the Kansas City Cardiomy-
opathy Questionnaire clinical summary 
score (KCCQ-CSS) (range from 0 to 100) 
and the change in weight. After 1 year of 
treatment, the mean change in the score 
was 13.7 points with semaglutide and 6.4 
points with placebo, and the mean body 
weight was reduced by 9.8% in the group 
assigned to semaglutide compared with 
3.4% with placebo. In addition, in the 
confirmatory secondary end point, sem-
aglutide treatment improved 6-min walk 
distance. SUMMIT [A Study of Tirzepatide 
(LY3298176) in Participants With Heart 
Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction 
(HFpEF) and Obesity] was a randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 
tirzepatide, a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, in in-
dividuals with established HFpEF and obe-
sity (48% with diabetes). The coprimary 
outcomes were death from cardiovascu-
lar causes or a worsening heart failure 
event and a change in the KCCQ-CSS. Wors-
ening heart failure or cardiovascular death 
was less frequent in individuals receiving 
tirzepatide (9.9% of individuals) versus pla-
cebo (15.3% of individuals; HR 0.62, 95% 
CI 0.41–0.95). In addition, the mean KCCQ- 
CSS improved significantly more in those 
on active tirzepatide (19.5) than in the pla-
cebo group (12.7) (307). Because of the re-
sults of these trials, treatment with a GLP-1 
RA or GIP/GLP-1 RA for a reduction in heart 
failure events and heart failure symptoms 
in people with symptoms of heart failure is 
recommended.
Figure 10.6—Approach to prevent ASCVD in people with type 2 diabetes. ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; BP, blood pressure; CKD, 
chronic kidney disease; CV, cardiovascular; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; LVEF, left ventricle ejection fraction; SGLT2i, 
sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor. 
Other Glucose-Lowering Therapies 
in Heart Failure
Thiazolidinediones have a strong and con-
sistent relationship with increased risk of 
heart failure (308,309) and should be 
avoided in people with heart failure. Met-
formin may be used for the management 
of hyperglycemia in people with stable 
heart failure as long as kidney function re-
mains within the recommended range for 
use (310). DPP-4 inhibitors are generally 
considered safe to use in heart failure, 
though in The Saxagliptin Assessment of 
Vascular Outcomes Recorded in Patients 
with Diabetes Mellitus–Thrombolysis in 
Myocardial Infarction 53 (SAVOR-TIMI 53) 
Does the individual have established ASCVD?
High-intensity statin2
SGLT2i
Does the individual have ASCVD in 
at least two vascular beds, or one 
Consider aspirin 81 mg daily AND 
rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily 
in individuals who do not need 
systemic anticoagulation or dual 
antiplatelet therapy and do not 
have another contraindication3
High-intensity statin
SGLT2i
Aspirin 81 mg once daily OR 
clopidogrel 75 mg once daily
Moderate- or high-intensity 
statin2
Is the individual at high ASCVD risk?4
Nutrition and lifestyle
BP management
1. 
ASCVD is defined as a history of an acute coronary syndrome or myocardial infarction, angina, coronary heart disease with or without 
revascularization, other arterial revascularization, stroke, or peripheral artery disease assumed to be atherosclerotic in origin.
2. 
Non-statins with demonstrated benefit should be considered in those with statin intolerance.
3. 
Consider low-dose rivaroxaban in people with atherosclerotic disease in at least two vascular beds, or in one bed and are older than 65 years, who do NOT have an
ic anticoagulation.
4. 
Individuals at high risk for ASCVD include those with end-organ damage such as left ventricular hypertrophy or retinopathy or with multiple CV risk factors (e.g., 
older age, hypertension, smoking, dyslipidemia, CKD, and obesity).
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Yes
Prevention of ASCVD1 in people with type 2 diabetes
diabetesjournals.org/care
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S237 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

study, participants randomized to saxaglip-
tin were more likely to be hospitalized for 
heart failure than those given placebo 
(311). However, three other cardiovascular 
outcomes trials—Examination of Cardio-
vascular Outcomes with Alogliptin versus 
Standard of Care (EXAMINE) (312), Trial 
Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with 
Sitagliptin (TECOS) (313), and the Cardiovas-
cular and Renal Microvascular Outcome 
Study With Linagliptin (CARMELINA) (314)— 
did not find a significant increase in risk of 
heart failure hospitalization with DPP-4 in-
hibitor use compared with placebo.
Clinical Approach
As has been carefully outlined in Fig. 9.4 
in section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches 
to Glycemic Treatment,” people with 
type 2 diabetes with or at high risk for 
ASCVD, heart failure, or CKD should be 
treated with a cardioprotective SGLT in-
hibitor and/or GLP-1 RA as part of the 
comprehensive approach to cardiovascu-
lar and kidney risk reduction. Importantly, 
these agents should be included in the 
plan of care irrespective of the need for 
additional glucose lowering and irrespec-
tive of metformin use. Figure 10.6 out-
lines the approach to risk reduction with 
SGLT2 inhibitor and GLP-1 RA therapy in 
conjunction with other traditional, guide-
line-based preventive medical therapies 
for blood pressure, lipids, and glycemia 
and antiplatelet therapy.
Adoption of these agents should be 
reasonably straightforward in people with 
type 2 diabetes and established cardio-
vascular or kidney disease. Incorporation 
of SGLT2 inhibitor or GLP-1 RA therapy in 
the care of individuals with diabetes may 
need to replace some or all of their exist-
ing medications to minimize risks of hypo-
glycemia and adverse side effects and 
potentially to minimize medication costs. 
Close collaboration between primary and 
specialty care professionals and other 
members of the health care team (ad-
vanced practice professionals, pharma-
cists, nutritionists, and others) can help 
facilitate these transitions in clinical care 
and, in turn, improve outcomes for peo-
ple with type 2 diabetes who are at high 
risk for ASCVD, heart failure, or CKD.
References
1. Rawshani A, Rawshani A, Franzén S, et al. 
Mortality and cardiovascular disease in type 1 
and type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2017;376: 
1407–1418
2. Weng W, Tian Y, Kong SX, et al. The prevalence 
of cardiovascular disease and antidiabetes 
treatment characteristics among a large type 2 
diabetes population in the United States. Endo- 
crinol Diabetes Metab 2019;2:e00076
3. Gæde P, Oellgaard J, Carstensen B, et al. 
Years of life gained by multifactorial intervention 
in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
microalbuminuria: 21 years follow-up on the 
Steno-2 randomised trial. Diabetologia 2016;59: 
2298–2307
4. Gaede P, Lund-Andersen H, Parving H-H, 
Pedersen O. Effect of a multifactorial intervention 
on mortality in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 
2008;358:580–591
5. Khunti K, Kosiborod M, Ray KK. Legacy 
benefits of blood glucose, blood pressure and 
lipid control in individuals with diabetes and 
cardiovascular disease: time to overcome multi- 
factorial therapeutic inertia? Diabetes Obes Metab 
2018;20:1337–1341
6. Rawshani A, Rawshani A, Franzén S, et al. Risk 
factors, mortality, and cardiovascular outcomes 
in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 
2018;379:633–644
7. Mohebi R, Chen C, Ibrahim NE, et al. 
Cardiovascular disease projections in the United 
States Based on the 2020 Census estimates. J Am 
Coll Cardiol 2022;80:565–578
8. Kazemian P, Shebl FM, McCann N, Walensky 
RP, Wexler DJ. Evaluation of the cascade of 
diabetes care in the United States, 2005-2016. 
JAMA Intern Med 2019;179:1376–1385
9. Nelson AJ, O’Brien EC, Kaltenbach LA, et al. 
Use of lipid-, blood pressure-, and glucose- 
lowering pharmacotherapy in patients with type 2 
diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease. JAMA Netw Open 2022;5:e2148030
10. Gregg EW, Cheng YJ, Srinivasan M, et al. 
Trends in cause-specific mortality among adults 
with and without diagnosed diabetes in the USA: 
an epidemiological analysis of linked national 
survey and vital statistics data. Lancet 2018;391: 
2430–2440
11. Kodama S, Fujihara K, Horikawa C, et al. 
Diabetes mellitus and risk of new-onset and 
recurrent heart failure: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis. ESC Heart Fail 2020;7:2146–2174
12. Maddox TM, Januzzi JL, Jr, Allen LA, et al. 
2024 ACC expert consensus decision pathway for 
treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection 
fraction: a report of the American College of 
Cardiology Solution Set Oversight Committee. J 
Am Coll Cardiol 83:1444–1488
13. Kittleson MM, Panjrath GS, Amancherla K, et 
al. 2023 ACC expert consensus decision pathway 
on management of heart failure with preserved 
ejection fraction. J Am Coll Cardiol 2023;81: 
1835–1878
14. Redfield MM, Borlaug BA. Heart failure with 
preserved ejection fraction: a review. JAMA 2023; 
329:827–838
15. Marwick TH, Ritchie R, Shaw JE, Kaye D. 
Implications of underlying mechanisms for the 
recognition and management of diabetic cardio- 
myopathy. J Am Coll Cardiol 2018;71:339–351
16. Pop-Busui R, Januzzi JL, Bruemmer D, et al. 
Heart failure: an underappreciated complication 
of diabetes. A consensus report of the American 
Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2022;45: 
1670–1690
17. Ndumele CE, Neeland IJ, Tuttle KR, et al.; 
American Heart Association. A synopsis of the 
evidence for the science and clinical management of 
cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic (CKM) syndrome: 
a scientific statement from the American Heart 
Association. Circulation 2023;148:1636–1664
18. Ndumele CE, Rangaswami J, Chow SL, et al.; 
American Heart Association. Cardiovascular- 
kidney-metabolic health: a presidential advisory 
from the American Heart Association. Circulation 
2023;148:1606–1635
19. Honigberg MC, Zekavat SM, Pirruccello JP, 
Natarajan P, Vaduganathan M. Cardiovascular and 
kidney outcomes across the glycemic spectrum: 
insights from the UK Biobank. J Am Coll Cardiol 
2021;78:453–464
20. Joseph JJ, Deedwania P, Acharya T, et al.; 
American Heart Association Diabetes Committee 
of the Council on Lifestyle and Cardiometabolic 
Health; Council on Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and 
Vascular Biology; Council on Clinical Cardiology; 
and Council on Hypertension. Comprehensive 
management of cardiovascular risk factors for 
adults with type 2 diabetes: a scientific statement 
from the American Heart Association. Circulation 
2022;145:e722–e759
21. Krentz A, Jacob S, Heiss C, et al.; International 
Cardiometabolic Working Group. Rising to the 
challenge of cardio-renal-metabolic disease in the 
21st century: translating evidence into best clinical 
practice to prevent and manage atherosclerosis. 
Atherosclerosis 2024;396:118528
22. Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 
2019 ACC/AHA guideline on the primary 
prevention of cardiovascular disease: a report of 
the American College of Cardiology/American 
Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice 
Guidelines. Circulation 2019;140:e596–e646
23. Jones DW, Ferdinand KC, Taler SJ, et al. 2025 
AHA/ACC/AANP/AAPA/ABC/ACCP/ACPM/AGS/ 
AMA/ASPC/NMA/PCNA/SGIM guideline for the 
prevention, detection, evaluation and management 
of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the 
American College of Cardiology/American Heart 
Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice 
Guidelines. Circulation 2025;152:e114–e218
24. de Boer IH, Bangalore S, Benetos A, et al. 
Diabetes and hypertension: a position statement 
by the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes 
Care 2017;40:1273–1284
25. Unger T, Borghi C, Charchar F, et al. 2020 
International Society of Hypertension global 
hypertension practice guidelines. Hypertension 
2020;75:1334–1357
26. Whelton PK, Carey RM, Mancia G, Kreutz R, 
Bundy JD, Williams B. Harmonization of the 
American College of Cardiology/American Heart 
Association and European Society of Cardiology/ 
European Society of Hypertension Blood Pressure/ 
Hypertension Guidelines. Eur Heart J 2022;43: 
3302–3311
27. Mancia G, Kreutz R, Brunström M, et al. 
2023 ESH guidelines for the management of 
arterial hypertension The Task Force for the 
management of arterial hypertension of the 
European Society of Hypertension: endorsed by 
the International Society of Hypertension (ISH) 
and the European Renal Association (ERA). J Hypertens 
2023;41:1874–2071
28. Williams B, Mancia G, Spiering W, et al.; 
ESC Scientific Document Group. 2018 ESC/ESH 
S238 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Guidelines for the management of arterial 
hypertension. Eur Heart J 2018;39:3021–3104
29. Ishigami J, Charleston J, Miller ER, Matsushita 
K, Appel LJ, Brady TM. Effects of cuff size on the 
accuracy of blood pressure readings: the Cuff(SZ) 
randomized crossover trial. JAMA Intern Med 
2023;183:1061–1068
30. Bobrie G, Genès N, Vaur L, et al. Is “isolated 
home” hypertension as opposed to “isolated 
office” hypertension a sign of greater cardiovascular 
risk? Arch Intern Med 2001;161:2205–2211
31. Sega R, Facchetti R, Bombelli M, et al. 
Prognostic value of ambulatory and home blood 
pressures compared with office blood pressure in 
the general population: follow-up results from the 
Pressioni Arteriose Monitorate e Loro Associazioni 
(PAMELA) study. Circulation 2005;111:1777–1783
32. Panagiotakos D, Antza C, Kotsis V. Ambulatory 
and home blood pressure monitoring for cardio- 
vascular disease risk evaluation: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort 
studies. J Hypertens 2024;42:1–9
33. Omboni S, Gazzola T, Carabelli G, Parati G. 
Clinical usefulness and cost effectiveness of home 
blood pressure telemonitoring: meta-analysis of 
randomized controlled studies. J Hypertens 2013; 
31:455–467
34. Emdin CA, Rahimi K, Neal B, Callender T, 
Perkovic V, Patel A. Blood pressure lowering in 
type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta- 
analysis. JAMA 2015;313:603–615
35. Arguedas JA, Leiva V, Wright JM. Blood 
pressure targets for hypertension in people with 
diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 
2013;2013:CD008277
36. Ettehad D, Emdin CA, Kiran A, et al. Blood 
pressure lowering for prevention of cardiovascular 
disease and death: a systematic review and meta- 
analysis. Lancet 2016;387:957–967
37. Brunström M, Carlberg B. Effect of 
antihypertensive treatment at different blood 
pressure levels in patients with diabetes mellitus: 
systematic review and meta-analyses. BMJ 2016; 
352:i717
38. Bangalore S, Kumar S, Lobach I, Messerli FH. 
Blood pressure targets in subjects with type 2 
diabetes mellitus/impaired fasting glucose: 
observations from traditional and Bayesian 
random-effects meta-analyses of randomized 
trials. Circulation 2011;123:2799–2810
39. Thomopoulos C, Parati G, Zanchetti A. Effects 
of blood-pressure-lowering treatment on outcome 
incidence in hypertension: 10 - Should blood 
pressure management differ in hypertensive 
patients with and without diabetes mellitus? 
Overview and meta-analyses of randomized trials. 
J Hypertens 2017;35:922–944
40. Xie X, Atkins E, Lv J, et al. Effects of intensive 
blood pressure lowering on cardiovascular and 
renal outcomes: updated systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Lancet 2016;387:435–443
41. Zhang W, Zhang S, Deng Y, et al.; STEP Study 
Group. Trial of intensive blood-pressure control in 
older patients with hypertension. N Engl J Med 
2021;385:1268–1279
42. Bi Y, Li M, Liu Y, et al.; BPROAD Research 
Group. Intensive blood-pressure control in patients 
with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2025;392: 
1155–1167
43. Liu J, Li Y, Ge J, et al.; ESPRIT Collaborative 
Group. Lowering systolic blood pressure to less 
than 120 mm Hg versus less than 140 mm Hg in 
patients with high cardiovascular risk with and 
without diabetes or previous stroke: an open- 
label, blinded-outcome, randomised trial. Lancet 
2024;404:245–255
44. Wright JT, Jr, Williamson JD, Whelton PK, et 
al. A randomized trial of intensive versus 
standard blood-pressure control. N Engl J Med 
2015;373:2103–2116
45. Cushman WC, Evans GW, Byington RP, et al.; 
ACCORD Study Group. Effects of intensive blood- 
pressure control in type 2 diabetes mellitus. N 
Engl J Med 2010;362:1575–1585
46. Patel A, MacMahon S, Chalmers J, et al.; 
ADVANCE Collaborative Group. Effects of a fixed 
combination of perindopril and indapamide on 
macrovascular and microvascular outcomes in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (the 
ADVANCE trial): a randomised controlled trial. 
Lancet 2007;370:829–840
47. Hansson L, Zanchetti A, Carruthers SG, et al. 
Effects of intensive blood-pressure lowering and 
low-dose aspirin in patients with hypertension: 
principal results of the Hypertension Optimal 
Treatment (HOT) randomised trial. HOT Study 
Group. Lancet 1998;351:1755–1762
48. de 
Boer 
IH, 
Bakris 
G, 
Cannon 
CP. 
Individualizing blood pressure targets for people 
with diabetes and hypertension: comparing the 
ADA and the ACC/AHA recommendations. JAMA 
2018;319:1319–1320
49. Basu S, Sussman JB, Rigdon J, Steimle L, 
Denton BT, Hayward RA. Benefit and harm of 
intensive blood pressure treatment: derivation 
and validation of risk models using data from the 
SPRINT and ACCORD trials. PLoS Med 2017;14: 
e1002410
50. Phillips RA, Xu J, Peterson LE, Arnold RM, 
Diamond JA, Schussheim AE. Impact of cardiov- 
ascular risk on the relative benefit and harm of 
intensive treatment of hypertension. J Am Coll 
Cardiol 2018;71:1601–1610
51.
Blood Pressure Lowering Treatment Trialists’ 
Collaboration. Blood pressure-lowering treatment 
based on cardiovascular risk: a meta-analysis of 
individual patient data. Lancet 2014;384:591–598
52. Sacks FM, Svetkey LP, Vollmer WM, et al.; 
DASH-Sodium Collaborative Research Group. Effects 
on blood pressure of reduced dietary sodium and 
the dietary approaches to stop hypertension (DASH) 
diet. DASH-Sodium Collaborative Research Group. N 
Engl J Med 2001;344:3–10
53. James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al. 2014 
evidence-based guideline for the management of 
high blood pressure in adults: report from the 
panel members appointed to the Eighth Joint 
National Committee (JNC 8). JAMA 2014;311: 
507–520
54. Guo R, Li N, Yang R, et al. Effects of the 
modified DASH diet on adults with elevated 
blood pressure or hypertension: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis. Front Nutr 2021;8: 
725020
55. Mao Y, Lin W, Wen J, Chen G. Impact and 
efficacy of mobile health intervention in the 
management of diabetes and hypertension: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ Open 
Diabetes Res Care 2020;8:e001225
56. Stogios N, Kaur B, Huszti E, Vasanthan J, 
Nolan RP. Advancing digital health interventions 
as a clinically applied science for blood pressure 
reduction: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Can J Cardiol 2020;36:764–774
57. Bakris GL, Weir MR; Study of Hypertension 
and the Efficacy of Lotrel in Diabetes (SHIELD) 
Investigators. Achieving goal blood pressure in 
patients with type 2 diabetes: conventional 
versus fixed-dose combination approaches. J Clin 
Hypertens (Greenwich) 2003;5:202–209
58. Feldman RD, Zou GY, Vandervoort MK, Wong 
CJ, Nelson SAE, Feagan BG. A simplified approach 
to the treatment of uncomplicated hypertension: a 
cluster randomized, controlled trial. Hypertension 
2009;53:646–653
59. Webster R, Salam A, de Silva HA, et al.; 
TRIUMPH Study Group. Fixed low-dose triple 
combination antihypertensive medication vs usual 
care for blood pressure control in patients with 
mild to moderate hypertension in sri lanka: a 
randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2018;320:566–579
60. Choudhry NK, Kronish IM, Vongpatanasin W, 
et al.; American Heart Association Council on 
Hypertension; Council on Cardiovascular and 
Stroke Nursing; Council on Clinical Cardiology. 
Medication adherence and blood pressure 
control: a scientific statement from the American 
Heart Association. Hypertension 2022;79:e1–e14
61. Wang N, Rueter P, Atkins E, et al. Efficacy and 
safety of low-dose triple and quadruple combination 
pills vs monotherapy, usual care, or placebo for the 
initial management of hypertension: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiol 2023;8: 
606–611
62. Ichikawa D, Kawarazaki W, Saka S, et al. Efficacy 
of renin-angiotensin system inhibitors, calcium 
channel blockers, and diuretics in hypertensive 
patients with diabetes: subgroup analysis based on 
albuminuria in a systematic review and meta- 
analysis. Hypertens Res 2025;48:1880–1890
63. Barzilay JI, Davis BR, Bettencourt J, et al.; 
ALLHAT Collaborative Research Group. Cardio- 
vascular outcomes using doxazosin vs. chlorthalidone 
for the treatment of hypertension in older adults 
with and without glucose disorders: a report from 
the ALLHAT study. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich) 
2004;6:116–125
64. Weber MA, Bakris GL, Jamerson K, et al.; 
ACCOMPLISH Investigators. Cardiovascular events 
during differing hypertension therapies in patients 
with diabetes. J Am Coll Cardiol 2010;56:77–85
65. Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation 
(HOPE) Study Investigators. Effects of ramipril on 
cardiovascular and microvascular outcomes in 
people with diabetes mellitus: results of the HOPE 
study and MICRO-HOPE substudy. Heart Outcomes 
Prevention Evaluation Study Investigators. Lancet 
2000;355:253–259
66. Arnold SV, Bhatt DL, Barsness GW, et al.; 
American Heart Association Council on Lifestyle 
and Cardiometabolic Health and Council on 
Clinical Cardiology. Clinical management of stable 
coronary artery disease in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus: a scientific statement from the 
American Heart Association. Circulation 2020;141: 
e779–e806
67. Yusuf S, Teo K, Anderson C, et al.; Telmisartan 
Randomised AssessmeNt Study in ACE iNtolerant 
subjects with cardiovascular Disease (TRANSCEND) 
Investigators. Effects of the angiotensin-receptor 
blocker telmisartan on cardiovascular events in high- 
risk patients intolerant to angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors: a randomised controlled trial. 
Lancet 2008;372:1174–1183
68. Qiao Y, Shin J-I, Chen TK, et al. Association 
between renin-angiotensin system blockade 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S239 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

discontinuation and all-cause mortality among 
persons with low estimated glomerular filtration 
rate. JAMA Intern Med 2020;180:718–726
69. Reinhart M, Puil L, Salzwedel DM, Wright JM. 
First-line diuretics versus other classes of anti- 
hypertensive drugs for hypertension. Cochrane 
Database Syst Rev 2023;7:CD008161
70. Carlberg B, Samuelsson O, Lindholm LH. 
Atenolol in hypertension: is it a wise choice? 
Lancet 2004;364:1684–1689
71. Murphy SP, Ibrahim NE, Januzzi JL, Jr. Heart 
failure with reduced ejection fraction: a review. 
JAMA 2020;324:488–504
72. Garovic VD, Dechend R, Easterling T, et al.; 
American Heart Association Council on Hyper- 
tension; Council on the Kidney in Cardiovascular 
Disease, Kidney in Heart Disease Science Committee; 
Council on Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular 
Biology; Council on Lifestyle and Cardiometabolic 
Health; Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease; and 
Stroke Council. Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis, 
blood pressure goals, and pharmacotherapy: a 
scientific statement from the American Heart 
Association. Hypertension 2022;79:e21–e41
73. Irgens HU, Reisaeter L, Irgens LM, Lie RT. 
Long term mortality of mothers and fathers after 
pre-eclampsia: population based cohort study. 
BMJ 2001;323:1213–1217
74. Yusuf S, Teo KK, Pogue J, et al.; ONTARGET 
Investigators. Telmisartan, ramipril, or both in 
patients at high risk for vascular events. N Engl J 
Med 2008;358:1547–1559
75. Fried LF, Emanuele N, Zhang JH, et al.; VA 
NEPHRON-D Investigators. Combined angiotensin 
inhibition for the treatment of diabetic nephro- 
pathy. N Engl J Med 2013;369:1892–1903
76. Makani H, Bangalore S, Desouza KA, Shah A, 
Messerli FH. Efficacy and safety of dual blockade 
of the renin-angiotensin system: meta-analysis of 
randomised trials. BMJ 2013;346:f360
77. Nilsson E, Gasparini A, €Arnlöv J, et al. 
Incidence and determinants of hyperkalemia and 
hypokalemia in a large healthcare system. Int 
J Cardiol 2017;245:277–284
78. Bandak G, Sang Y, Gasparini A, et al. 
Hyperkalemia after initiating renin-angiotensin 
system blockade: the Stockholm Creatinine 
Measurements (SCREAM) project. J Am Heart 
Assoc 2017;6:e005428
79. Bakris GL, Weir MR. Angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitor-associated elevations in serum 
creatinine: is this a cause for concern? Arch 
Intern Med 2000;160:685–693
80. Ostermann M, Bellomo R, Burdmann EA, et 
al.; Conference Participants. Controversies in 
acute kidney injury: conclusions from a Kidney 
Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) 
Conference. Kidney Int 2020;98:294–309
81. James MT, Grams ME, Woodward M, et al.; 
CKD Prognosis Consortium. A meta-analysis of 
the association of estimated GFR, albuminuria, 
diabetes mellitus, and hypertension with acute 
kidney injury. Am J Kidney Dis 2015;66:602–612
82. Williams B, MacDonald TM, Morant S, et al.; 
British Hypertension Society’s PATHWAY Studies 
Group. Spironolactone versus placebo, bisoprolol, 
and doxazosin to determine the optimal treatment 
for drug-resistant hypertension (PATHWAY-2): a 
randomised, double-blind, crossover trial. Lancet 
2015;386:2059–2068
83. Sato A, Hayashi K, Naruse M, Saruta T. 
Effectiveness of aldosterone blockade in patients 
with diabetic nephropathy. Hypertension 2003;41: 
64–68
84. Mehdi UF, Adams-Huet B, Raskin P, Vega GL, 
Toto RD. Addition of angiotensin receptor 
blockade or mineralocorticoid antagonism to 
maximal angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition 
in diabetic nephropathy. J Am Soc Nephrol 2009; 
20:2641–2650
85. Bakris GL, Agarwal R, Chan JC, et al.; 
Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonist Tolerability 
Study–Diabetic Nephropathy (ARTS-DN) Study 
Group. Effect of finerenone on albuminuria in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy: a randomized 
clinical trial. JAMA 2015;314:884–894
86. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 
AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline for 
the management of patients with chronic 
coronary disease: a report of the American Heart 
Association/American College of Cardiology Joint 
Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. 
Circulation 2023;148:e9–e119
87. Estruch R, Ros E, Salas-Salvadó J, et al.; 
PREDIMED Study Investigators. Primary prevention 
of cardiovascular disease with a mediterranean 
diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil or 
nuts. N Engl J Med 2018;378:e34
88. Jia X, Al Rifai M, Ramsey DJ, et al. 
Association between lipid testing and statin 
adherence in the Veterans Affairs health system. 
Am J Med 2019;132:e693–e700
89. Rana JS, Virani SS, Moffet HH, et al. 
Association of low-density lipoprotein testing 
after an atherosclerotic cardiovascular event with 
subsequent statin adherence and intensification. 
Am J Med 2022;135:603–606
90. Tran C, Vo V, Taylor P, Koehn DA, Virani SS, 
Dixon DL. Adherence to lipid monitoring and its 
impact on treat intensification of LDL-C lowering 
therapies at an urban academic medical center. 
J Clin Lipidol 2022;16:491–497
91. Meek C, Wierzbicki AS, Jewkes C, et al. Daily 
and intermittent rosuvastatin 5mg therapy in 
statin intolerant patients: an observational study. 
Curr Med Res Opin 2012;28:371–378
92. Fulcher J, O’Connell R, Voysey M, et al. 
Efficacy and safety of LDL-lowering therapy 
among men and women: meta-analysis of 
individual data from 174,000 participants in 27 
randomised trials. Lancet 2015;385:1397–1405
93. Mihaylova B, Emberson J, Blackwell L, et al. 
The effects of lowering LDL cholesterol with 
statin therapy in people at low risk of vascular 
disease: meta-analysis of individual data from 27 
randomised trials. Lancet 2012;380:581–590
94. Py�orälä K, Pedersen TR, Kjekshus J, Faergeman 
O, Olsson AG, Thorgeirsson G. Cholesterol lowering 
with simvastatin improves prognosis of diabetic 
patients with coronary heart disease. A subgroup 
analysis of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival 
Study (4S). Diabetes Care 1997;20:614–620
95. Collins R, Armitage J, Parish S, Sleigh P, Peto 
R; Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group. 
MRC/BHF Heart Protection Study of cholesterol- 
lowering with simvastatin in 5963 people with 
diabetes: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. 
Lancet 2003;361:2005–2016
96. Goldberg RB, Mellies MJ, Sacks FM, et al. 
Cardiovascular events and their reduction with 
pravastatin in diabetic and glucose-intolerant 
myocardial infarction survivors with average 
cholesterol levels: subgroup analyses in the 
cholesterol and recurrent events (CARE) trial. The 
Care Investigators. Circulation 1998;98:2513–2519
97. Shepherd J, Barter P, Carmena R, et al. Effect 
of lowering LDL cholesterol substantially below 
currently recommended levels in patients with 
coronary heart disease and diabetes: the Treating 
to New Targets (TNT) study. Diabetes Care 2006; 
29:1220–1226
98. Sever PS, Poulter NR, Dahlöf B, et al. Reduction 
in cardiovascular events with atorvastatin in 2,532 
patients with type 2 diabetes: Anglo-Scandinavian 
Cardiac Outcomes Trial–lipid-lowering arm (ASCOT- 
LLA). Diabetes Care 2005;28:1151–1157
99. Knopp RH, d’Emden M, Smilde JG, Pocock SJ. 
Efficacy and safety of atorvastatin in the 
prevention of cardiovascular end points in subjects 
with type 2 diabetes: the Atorvastatin Study for 
Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease Endpoints in 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (ASPEN). 
Diabetes Care 2006;29:1478–1485
100. Colhoun HM, Betteridge DJ, Durrington PN, 
et al.; CARDS investigators. Primary prevention of 
cardiovascular disease with atorvastatin in type 2 
diabetes in the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes 
Study (CARDS): multicentre randomised placebo- 
controlled trial. Lancet 2004;364:685–696
101. Kearney PM, Blackwell L, Collins R, et al.; 
Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaborators. 
Efficacy of cholesterol-lowering therapy in 18,686 
people with diabetes in 14 randomised trials of 
statins: a meta-analysis. Lancet 2008;371:117–125
102. Taylor F, Huffman MD, Macedo AF, et al. 
Statins for the primary prevention of cardiov- 
ascular disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013; 
2013:CD004816
103. Carter AA, Gomes T, Camacho X, Juurlink 
DN, Shah BR, Mamdani MM. Risk of incident 
diabetes among patients treated with statins: 
population based study. BMJ 2013;346:f2610
104. Baigent C, Keech A, Kearney PM, et al.; 
Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaborators. 
Efficacy and safety of cholesterol-lowering treat- 
ment: prospective meta-analysis of data from 
90,056 participants in 14 randomised trials of 
statins. Lancet 2005;366:1267–1278
105. Mangione CM, Barry MJ, Nicholson WK, et 
al.; US Preventive Services Task Force. Statin use 
for the primary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force 
recommendation statement. JAMA 2022;328: 
746–753
106. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. AHA/ 
ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ 
ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management 
of blood cholesterol: a report of the American 
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association 
Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. 
Circulation 2018;139:e1082–e1143
107. Jellinger PS, Handelsman Y, Rosenblit PD, 
et al. American Association of Clinical Endo- 
crinologists and American College of Endocrinology 
guidelines for management of dyslipidemia and 
prevention of cardiovascular disease. Endocr Pract 
2017;23:1–87
108. Goldberg RB, Stone NJ, Grundy SM. The 
2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/ 
AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guidelines on the 
management of blood cholesterol in diabetes. 
Diabetes Care 2020;43:1673–1678
109. Mach F, Baigent C, Catapano AL, et al.; ESC 
Scientific Document Group. 2019 ESC/EAS 
guidelines for the management of dyslipidaemias: 
S240 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

lipid modification to reduce cardiovascular risk. 
Eur Heart J 2020;41:111–188
110. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018 
AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/ 
APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the manage- 
ment of blood cholesterol: executive summary. J 
Am Coll Cardiol 2019;73:3168–3209
111. Khan SU, Yedlapati SH, Lone AN, et al. 
PCSK9 inhibitors and ezetimibe with or without 
statin therapy for cardiovascular risk reduction: a 
systematic review and network meta-analysis. 
BMJ 2022;377:e069116
112. Cannon CP, Blazing MA, Giugliano RP, et al.; 
IMPROVE-IT Investigators. Ezetimibe added to 
statin therapy after acute coronary syndromes. N 
Engl J Med 2015;372:2387–2397
113. de Ferranti SD, de Boer IH, Fonseca V, et al. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease: 
a scientific statement from the American Heart 
Association and American Diabetes Association. 
Diabetes Care 2014;37:2843–2863
114. Kang YM, Giugliano RP, Ran X, et al. 
Cardiovascular outcomes and efficacy of the 
PCSK9 inhibitor evolocumab in individuals with 
type 1 diabetes: insights from the FOURIER trial. 
Diabetes Care 2025;48:1512–1516
115. Sabatine MS, Giugliano RP, Keech AC, et al.; 
FOURIER Steering Committee and Investigators. 
Evolocumab and clinical outcomes in patients 
with cardiovascular disease. N Engl J Med 2017; 
376:1713–1722
116. Giugliano RP, Cannon CP, Blazing MA, et al.; 
IMPROVE-IT (Improved Reduction of Outcomes: 
Vytorin Efficacy International Trial) Investigators. 
Benefit of adding ezetimibe to statin therapy on 
cardiovascular outcomes and safety in patients 
with versus without diabetes mellitus: results from 
IMPROVE-IT (Improved Reduction of Outcomes: 
Vytorin Efficacy International Trial). Circulation 
2018;137:1571–1582
117. Schwartz GG, Steg PG, Szarek M, et al.; 
ODYSSEY OUTCOMES Committees and Investigators. 
Alirocumab and cardiovascular outcomes after acute 
coronary syndrome. N Engl J Med 2018;379: 
2097–2107
118. Ray KK, Colhoun HM, Szarek M, et al.; 
ODYSSEY OUTCOMES Committees and Investigators. 
Effects of alirocumab on cardiovascular and meta- 
bolic outcomes after acute coronary syndrome in 
patients with or without diabetes: a prespecified 
analysis of the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES randomised 
controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2019; 
7:618–628
119. Sabatine MS, Leiter LA, Wiviott SD, et al. 
Cardiovascular safety and efficacy of the PCSK9 
inhibitor evolocumab in patients with and 
without diabetes and the effect of evolocumab 
on glycaemia and risk of new-onset diabetes: a 
prespecified analysis of the FOURIER randomised 
controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2017; 
5:941–950
120. Moriarty PM, Jacobson TA, Bruckert E, et al. 
Efficacy and safety of alirocumab, a monoclonal 
antibody to PCSK9, in statin-intolerant patients: 
design and rationale of ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE, a 
randomized phase 3 trial. J Clin Lipidol 2014;8: 
554–561
121. Toth PP, Bray S, Villa G, et al. Network meta- 
analysis of randomized trials evaluating the 
comparative efficacy of lipid-lowering therapies 
added to maximally tolerated statins for the 
reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. 
J Am Heart Assoc 2022;11:e025551
122. Giugliano RP, Pedersen TR, Saver JL, et al.; 
FOURIER Investigators. Stroke prevention with 
the PCSK9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin 
type 9) inhibitor evolocumab added to statin in 
high-risk patients with stable atherosclerosis. 
Stroke 2020;51:1546–1554
123. Ray KK, Wright RS, Kallend D, et al.; ORION- 
10 and ORION-11 Investigators. Two phase 3 
trials of inclisiran in patients with elevated LDL 
cholesterol. N Engl J Med 2020;382:1507–1519
124. University of Oxford. ClinicalTrials.gov. In: A 
Randomized Trial Assessing the Effects of Inclisiran 
On Clinical Outcomes Among People With 
Cardiovascular Disease (ORION-4). Bethesda, 
MD, National Library of Medicine. Accessed 19 
August 2025. Available from https://clinicaltrials 
.gov/ct2/show/NCT03705234
125. National Library of Medicine. National Center 
for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Study of Inclisiran to Prevent Cardiovascular (CV) 
Events in Participants With Established Cardio- 
vascular Disease (VICTORION-2P) (NCT05030428). 
Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https:// 
clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05030428
126. National Library of Medicine. National Center 
for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov. A 
Study of Inclisiran to Prevent Cardiovascular 
Events in High-Risk Primary Prevention Patients 
(NCT05739383). Accessed 19 August 2025. 
Available from https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/ 
NCT05739383
127. Cheeley MK, Saseen JJ, Agarwala A, et al. 
NLA scientific statement on statin intolerance: a 
new definition and key considerations for ASCVD 
risk reduction in the statin intolerant patient. 
J Clin Lipidol 2022;16:361–375
128. Moriarty PM, Thompson PD, Cannon CP, et 
al.; ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE Investigators. Efficacy 
and safety of alirocumab vs ezetimibe in statin- 
intolerant patients, with a statin rechallenge arm: 
the ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE randomized trial. J Clin 
Lipidol 2015;9:758–769
129. Sullivan D, Olsson AG, Scott R, et al. Effect 
of a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 on low- 
density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in statin- 
intolerant patients: the GAUSS randomized trial. 
JAMA 2012;308:2497–2506
130. Stroes E, Colquhoun D, Sullivan D, et al.; 
GAUSS-2 Investigators. Anti-PCSK9 antibody 
effectively lowers cholesterol in patients with 
statin intolerance: the GAUSS-2 randomized, 
placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial of 
evolocumab. J Am Coll Cardiol 2014;63: 
2541–2548
131. Nissen SE, Stroes E, Dent-Acosta RE, et al.; 
GAUSS-3 Investigators. Efficacy and tolerability of 
evolocumab vs ezetimibe in patients with muscle- 
related statin intolerance: the GAUSS-3 randomized 
clinical trial. JAMA 2016;315:1580–1590
132. Ray KK, Stoekenbroek RM, Kallend D, et al. 
Effect of 1 or 2 doses of inclisiran on low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol levels: one-year follow-up 
of the ORION-1 randomized clinical trial. JAMA 
Cardiol 2019;4:1067–1075
133. Ray KK, Troquay RPT, Visseren FLJ, et al. Long- 
term efficacy and safety of inclisiran in patients 
with high cardiovascular risk and elevated LDL 
cholesterol (ORION-3): results from the 4-year 
open-label extension of the ORION-1 trial. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 2023;11:109–119
134. De Filippo O, D’Ascenzo F, Iannaccone M, et 
al. Safety and efficacy of bempedoic acid: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised 
controlled trials. Cardiovasc Diabetol 2023;22:324
135. Nissen SE, Lincoff AM, Brennan D, et al.; 
CLEAR Outcomes Investigators. Bempedoic acid 
and cardiovascular outcomes in statin-intolerant 
patients. N Engl J Med 2023;388:1353–1364
136. Ray KK, Nicholls SJ, Li N, et al.; CLEAR 
OUTCOMES 
Committees 
and 
Investigators. 
Efficacy and safety of bempedoic acid among 
patients with and without diabetes: prespecified 
analysis of the CLEAR Outcomes randomised 
trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2024;12:19–28
137. Nissen SE, Menon V, Nicholls SJ, et al. 
Bempedoic acid for primary prevention of cardio- 
vascular events in statin-intolerant patients. JAMA 
2023;330:131–140
138. Agarwala A, Dixon DL, Gianos E, et al. 
Dyslipidemia management in women of re- 
productive potential: an expert clinical consensus 
from the national lipid association. J Clin Lipidol 
2024;18:e664–e684
139. Roeters van Lennep JE, Tokgözo�glu LS, 
Badimon L, et al. Women, lipids, and athero- 
sclerotic cardiovascular disease: a call to action 
from the European Atherosclerosis Society. Eur 
Heart J 2023;44:4157–4173
140. Nanna MG, Wang TY, Xiang Q, et al. Sex 
differences in the use of statins in community 
practice. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes 2019; 
12:e005562
141. Botha TC, Pilcher GJ, Wolmarans K, Blom 
DJ, Raal FJ. Statins and other lipid-lowering 
therapy and pregnancy outcomes in homozygous 
familial hypercholesterolaemia: a retrospective 
review of 39 pregnancies. Atherosclerosis 2018; 
277:502–507
142. Toleikyte I, Retterstøl K, Leren TP, Iversen 
PO. Pregnancy outcomes in familial hyper- 
cholesterolemia: a registry-based study. Circulation 
2011;124:1606–1614
143. Mészáros B, Veres DS, Nagyistók L, et al. 
Pravastatin in preeclampsia: a meta-analysis and 
systematic review. Front Med (Lausanne) 2022; 
9:1076372
144. Virani SS, Morris PB, Agarwala A, et al. 2021 
ACC expert consensus decision pathway on the 
management of ASCVD risk reduction in patients 
with persistent hypertriglyceridemia: a report of 
the American College of Cardiology Solution Set 
Oversight Committee. J Am Coll Cardiol 2021;78: 
960–993
145. Pedersen SB, Langsted A, Nordestgaard BG. 
Nonfasting mild-to-moderate hypertriglyceridemia 
and risk of acute pancreatitis. JAMA Intern Med 
2016;176:1834–1842
146. Nelson AJ, Navar AM, Mulder H, et al. 
Association between triglycerides and residual 
cardiovascular risk in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular 
disease (from the Bypass Angioplasty Revas- 
cularization Investigation 2 Diabetes [BARI 2D] 
trial). Am J Cardiol 2020;132:36–43
147. Bhatt DL, Steg PG, Miller M, et al.; REDUCE- 
IT Investigators. Cardiovascular risk reduction 
with icosapent ethyl for hypertriglyceridemia. 
N Engl J Med 2019;380:11–22
148. Nicholls SJ, Lincoff AM, Garcia M, et al. Effect 
of high-dose omega-3 fatty acids vs corn oil on 
major adverse cardiovascular events in patients at 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S241 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

high cardiovascular risk: the STRENGTH randomized 
clinical trial. JAMA 2020;324:2268–2280
149. Singh IM, Shishehbor MH, Ansell BJ. High- 
density lipoprotein as a therapeutic target: a 
systematic review. JAMA 2007;298:786–798
150. Maki KC, Guyton JR, Orringer CE, Hamilton- 
Craig I, Alexander DD, Davidson MH. Triglyceride- 
lowering therapies reduce cardiovascular disease 
event risk in subjects with hypertriglyceridemia. 
J Clin Lipidol 2016;10:905–914
151. Das Pradhan A, Glynn RJ, Fruchart J-C, et al.; 
PROMINENT Investigators. Triglyceride lowering 
with pemafibrate to reduce cardiovascular risk. N 
Engl J Med 2022;387:1923–1934
152. Jones PH, Davidson MH. Reporting rate of 
rhabdomyolysis with fenofibrate + statin versus 
gemfibrozil + any statin. Am J Cardiol 2005;95: 
120–122
153. Ginsberg HN, Elam MB, Lovato LC, et al.; 
ACCORD Study Group. Effects of combination 
lipid therapy in type 2 diabetes mellitus. N Engl J 
Med 2010;362:1563–1574
154. Boden WE, Probstfield JL, Anderson T, et al.; 
AIM-HIGH Investigators. Niacin in patients with low 
HDL cholesterol levels receiving intensive statin 
therapy. N Engl J Med 2011;365:2255–2267
155. Landray MJ, Haynes R, Hopewell JC, et al.; 
HPS2-THRIVE Collaborative Group. Effects of 
extended-release niacin with laropiprant in high- 
risk patients. N Engl J Med 2014;371:203–212
156. Rajpathak SN, Kumbhani DJ, Crandall J, 
Barzilai N, Alderman M, Ridker PM. Statin 
therapy and risk of developing type 2 diabetes: a 
meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1924–1929
157. Sattar N, Preiss D, Murray HM, et al. Statins 
and risk of incident diabetes: a collaborative 
meta-analysis of randomised statin trials. Lancet 
2010;375:735–742
158. Ridker PM, Pradhan A, MacFadyen JG, 
Libby P, Glynn RJ. Cardiovascular benefits and 
diabetes risks of statin therapy in primary pre- 
vention: an analysis from the JUPITER trial. 
Lancet 2012;380:565–571
159. Mach F, Ray KK, Wiklund O, et al.; European 
Atherosclerosis Society Consensus Panel. Adverse 
effects of statin therapy: perception vs. the 
evidence - focus on glucose homeostasis, cognitive, 
renal and hepatic function, haemorrhagic stroke 
and cataract. Eur Heart J 2018;39:2526–2539
160. Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group. 
MRC/BHF Heart Protection Study of cholesterol 
lowering with simvastatin in 20,536 high-risk 
individuals: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. 
Lancet 2002;360:7–22
161. Shepherd J, Blauw GJ, Murphy MB, et al.; 
PROSPER study group. PROspective Study of 
Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk. Pravastatin in 
elderly individuals at risk of vascular disease 
(PROSPER): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 
2002;360:1623–1630
162. Trompet S, van Vliet P, de Craen AJM, et al. 
Pravastatin and cognitive function in the elderly. 
Results of the PROSPER study. J Neurol 2010;257: 
85–90
163. Yusuf S, Bosch J, Dagenais G, et al.; HOPE-3 
Investigators. Cholesterol lowering in intermediate- 
risk persons without cardiovascular disease. N Engl 
J Med 2016;374:2021–2031
164. Giugliano RP, Mach F, Zavitz K, et al.; 
EBBINGHAUS Investigators. Cognitive function in 
a randomized trial of evolocumab. N Engl J Med 
2017;377:633–643
165. Olmastroni E, Molari G, De Beni N, et al. 
Statin use and risk of dementia or Alzheimer’s 
disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 
observational studies. Eur J Prev Cardiol 2022; 
29:804–814
166. Richardson K, Schoen M, French B, et al. 
Statins and cognitive function: a systematic 
review. Ann Intern Med 2013;159:688–697
167. Adhikari A, Tripathy S, Chuzi S, Peterson J, 
Stone NJ. Association between statin use and 
cognitive function: a systematic review of ran- 
domized clinical trials and observational studies. 
J Clin Lipidol 2021;15:22–32
168. Perk J, De Backer G, Gohlke H, et al. 
European guidelines on cardiovascular disease 
prevention in clinical practice (version 2012). The 
Fifth Joint Task Force of the European Society of 
Cardiology and Other Societies on Cardiovascular 
Disease Prevention in Clinical Practice (constituted 
by representatives of nine societies and by invited 
experts). Eur Heart J 2012;33:1635–1701
169. Belch J, MacCuish A, Campbell I, et al.; Royal 
College of Physicians Edinburgh. The Prevention of 
Progression of Arterial Disease and Diabetes 
(POPADAD) trial: factorial randomised placebo 
controlled trial of aspirin and antioxidants in 
patients with diabetes and asymptomatic 
peripheral arterial disease. BMJ 2008;337:a1840
170. Zhang C, Sun A, Zhang P, et al. Aspirin for 
primary prevention of cardiovascular events in 
patients with diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes 
Res Clin Pract 2010;87:211–218
171. De Berardis G, Sacco M, Strippoli GFM, et 
al. Aspirin for primary prevention of cardio- 
vascular events in people with diabetes: meta- 
analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 
2009;339:b4531
172. Baigent C, Blackwell L, Collins R, et al.; 
Antithrombotic Trialists’ (ATT) Collaboration. 
Aspirin in the primary and secondary prevention 
of vascular disease: collaborative meta-analysis 
of individual participant data from randomised 
trials. Lancet 2009;373:1849–1860
173. Bowman L, Mafham M, Wallendszus K, et 
al.; ASCEND Study Collaborative Group. Effects of 
aspirin for primary prevention in persons with 
diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med 2018;379: 
1529–1539
174. Gaziano JM, Brotons C, Coppolecchia R, et 
al.; ARRIVE Executive Committee. Use of aspirin to 
reduce risk of initial vascular events in patients at 
moderate risk of cardiovascular disease (ARRIVE): a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. 
Lancet 2018;392:1036–1046
175. McNeil JJ, Wolfe R, Woods RL, et al.; 
ASPREE Investigator Group. Effect of aspirin on 
cardiovascular events and bleeding in the healthy 
elderly. N Engl J Med 2018;379:1509–1518
176. Pignone M, Earnshaw S, Tice JA, Pletcher 
MJ. Aspirin, statins, or both drugs for the primary 
prevention of coronary heart disease events in 
men: a cost-utility analysis. Ann Intern Med 
2006;144:326–336
177. Huxley 
RR, 
Peters SAE, 
Mishra GD, 
Woodward M. Risk of all-cause mortality and 
vascular events in women versus men with type 1 
diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2015;3:198–206
178. Peters SAE, Huxley RR, Woodward M. 
Diabetes as risk factor for incident coronary heart 
disease in women compared with men: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of 64 cohorts 
including 858,507 individuals and 28,203 coronary 
events. Diabetologia 2014;57:1542–1551
179. Kalyani RR, Lazo M, Ouyang P, et al. Sex 
differences in diabetes and risk of incident coronary 
artery disease in healthy young and middle-aged 
adults. Diabetes Care 2014;37:830–838
180. Peters SAE, Huxley RR, Woodward M. 
Diabetes as a risk factor for stroke in women 
compared with men: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis of 64 cohorts, including 775,385 
individuals and 12,539 strokes. Lancet 2014;383: 
1973–1980
181. Miedema MD, Duprez DA, Misialek JR, et al. 
Use of coronary artery calcium testing to guide 
aspirin utilization for primary prevention: estimates 
from the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis. Circ 
Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes 2014;7:453–460
182. Dimitriu-Leen AC, Scholte AJHA, van 
Rosendael AR, et al. Value of coronary computed 
tomography angiography in tailoring aspirin 
therapy for primary prevention of atherosclerotic 
events in patients at high risk with diabetes 
mellitus. Am J Cardiol 2016;117:887–893
183. Mora S, Ames JM, Manson JE. Low-dose 
aspirin in the primary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease: shared decision making in clinical practice. 
JAMA 2016;316:709–710
184. Campbell CL, Smyth S, Montalescot G, 
Steinhubl SR. Aspirin dose for the prevention of 
cardiovascular disease: a systematic review. JAMA 
2007;297:2018–2024
185. Jones WS, Mulder H, Wruck LM, et al.; 
ADAPTABLE Team. Comparative effectiveness of 
aspirin dosing in cardiovascular disease. N Engl J 
Med 2021;384:1981–1990
186. Levine GN, Bates ER, Bittl JA, et al. 2016 ACC/ 
AHA guideline focused update on duration of dual 
antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary 
artery disease: a report of the American College of 
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force 
on Clinical Practice Guidelines: an update of the 
2011 ACCF/AHA/SCAI guideline for percutaneous 
coronary intervention, 2011 ACCF/AHA guideline 
for coronary artery bypass graft surgery, 2012 ACC/ 
AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the 
diagnosis and management of patients with 
stable ischemic heart disease, 2013 ACCF/AHA 
guideline for the management of ST-elevation 
myocardial infarction, 2014 AHA/ACC guideline 
for the management of patients with non–ST- 
elevation acute coronary syndromes, and 2014 ACC/ 
AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular 
evaluation and management of patients undergoing 
noncardiac surgery. Circulation 2016;134:e123–e155
187. Vandvik PO, Lincoff AM, Gore JM, et al. 
Primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease: Antithrombotic Therapy and Prevention of 
Thrombosis, 9th ed: American College of Chest 
Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice 
Guidelines. Chest 2012;141:e637S–e668S
188. Bhatt DL, Bonaca MP, Bansilal S, et al. 
Reduction in ischemic events with ticagrelor in 
diabetic patients with prior myocardial infarction 
in PEGASUS-TIMI 54. J Am Coll Cardiol 2016; 
67:2732–2740
189. Steg PG, Bhatt DL, Simon T, et al.; THEMIS 
Steering Committee and Investigators. Ticagrelor 
in patients with stable coronary disease and 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:1309–1320
190. Bhatt DL, Steg PG, Mehta SR, et al.; THEMIS 
Steering Committee and Investigators. Ticagrelor 
in patients with diabetes and stable coronary 
S242 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

artery disease with a history of previous per- 
cutaneous coronary intervention (THEMIS-PCI): a 
phase 3, placebo-controlled, randomised trial. 
Lancet 2019;394:1169–1180
191. Angiolillo DJ, Baber U, Sartori S, et al. Ticagrelor 
with or without aspirin in high-risk patients with 
diabetes mellitus undergoing percutaneous coronary 
intervention. J Am Coll Cardiol 2020;75:2403–2413
192. Wiebe J, Ndrepepa G, Kufner S, et al. Early 
aspirin discontinuation after coronary stenting: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. J Am Heart 
Assoc 2021;10:e018304
193. Kleindorfer DO, Towfighi A, Chaturvedi S, et 
al. 2021 Guideline for the prevention of stroke in 
patients with stroke and transient ischemic 
attack: a guideline from the American Heart 
Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke 
2021;52:e364–e467
194. Bhatt DL, Eikelboom JW, Connolly SJ, et al.; 
COMPASS Steering Committee and Investigators. 
Role of combination antiplatelet and anticoagulation 
therapy in diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular 
disease: insights from the COMPASS trial. Circulation 
2020;141:1841–1854
195. Connolly SJ, Eikelboom JW, Bosch J, et al.; 
COMPASS investigators. Rivaroxaban with or 
without aspirin in patients with stable coronary 
artery disease: an international, randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2018; 
391:205–218
196. Bonaca MP, Bauersachs RM, Anand SS, et 
al. Rivaroxaban in peripheral artery disease after 
revascularization. N Engl J Med 2020;382: 
1994–2004
197. Boden WE, O’Rourke RA, Teo KK, et al.; 
COURAGE Trial Research Group. Optimal medical 
therapy with or without PCI for stable coronary 
disease. N Engl J Med 2007;356:1503–1516
198. Frye RL, August P, Brooks MM, et al.; BARI 
2D Study Group. A randomized trial of therapies 
for type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease. 
N Engl J Med 2009;360:2503–2515
199. Young LH, Wackers FJT, Chyun DA, et al.; 
DIAD Investigators. Cardiac outcomes after 
screening for asymptomatic coronary artery 
disease in patients with type 2 diabetes: the 
DIAD study: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 
2009;301:1547–1555
200. Muhlestein JB, Lappé DL, Lima JAC, et al. 
Effect of screening for coronary artery disease 
using CT angiography on mortality and cardiac 
events in high-risk patients with diabetes: the 
FACTOR-64 randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2014; 
312:2234–2243
201. Wackers FJT, Young LH, Inzucchi SE, et al.; 
Detection of Ischemia in Asymptomatic Diabetics 
Investigators. Detection of silent myocardial 
ischemia in asymptomatic diabetic subjects: the 
DIAD study. Diabetes Care 2004;27:1954–1961
202. Scognamiglio R, Negut C, Ramondo A, Tiengo 
A, Avogaro A. Detection of coronary artery disease 
in asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. J Am Coll Cardiol 2006;47:65–71
203. Elkeles RS, Godsland IF, Feher MD, et 
al.; PREDICT Study Group. Coronary calcium 
measurement improves prediction of cardiovascular 
events in asymptomatic patients with type 2 
diabetes: the PREDICT study. Eur Heart J 2008;29: 
2244–2251
204. Malik S, Zhao Y, Budoff M, et al. Coronary 
artery calcium score for long-term risk class- 
ification in individuals with type 2 diabetes and 
metabolic syndrome from the multi-ethnic 
study of atherosclerosis. JAMA Cardiol 2017;2: 
1332–1340
205. McAllister DA, Read SH, Kerssens J, et al. 
Incidence of hospitalization for heart failure and 
case-fatality among 3.25 million people with and 
without diabetes mellitus. Circulation 2018;138: 
2774–2786
206. Ohkuma 
T, 
Komorita 
Y, 
Peters 
SAE, 
Woodward M. Diabetes as a risk factor for heart 
failure in women and men: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis of 47 cohorts including 12 million 
individuals. Diabetologia 2019;62:1550–1560
207. Birkeland KI, Bodegard J, Eriksson JW, et al. 
Heart failure and chronic kidney disease 
manifestation and mortality risk associations in 
type 2 diabetes: a large multinational cohort 
study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:1607–1618
208. Segar MW, Patel KV, Vaduganathan M, et 
al. Association of long-term change and 
variability in glycemia with risk of incident heart 
failure among patients with type 2 diabetes: a 
secondary analysis of the ACCORD trial. Diabetes 
Care 2020;43:1920–1928
209. Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Ndumele CE, Zhang 
S, et al. Diabetes and progression of heart failure: 
the Atherosclerosis Risk In Communities (ARIC) 
study. J Am Coll Cardiol 2022;79:2285–2293
210. Ledwidge M, Gallagher J, Conlon C, et al. 
Natriuretic 
peptide-based 
screening 
and 
collaborative care for heart failure: the STOP- 
HF randomized trial. JAMA 2013;310:66–74
211. Huelsmann M, Neuhold S, Resl M, et al. 
PONTIAC (NT-proBNP selected prevention of 
cardiac events in a population of diabetic 
patients without a history of cardiac disease): a 
prospective randomized controlled trial. J Am 
Coll Cardiol 2013;62:1365–1372
212. Januzzi JL, Xu J, Li J, et al. Effects of 
canagliflozin on amino-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic 
peptide: implications for cardiovascular risk reduction. 
J Am Coll Cardiol 2020;76:2076–2085
213. Jarolim P, White WB, Cannon CP, Gao Q, 
Morrow DA. Serial measurement of natriuretic 
peptides and cardiovascular outcomes in patients 
with type 2 diabetes in the EXAMINE trial. Diabetes 
Care 2018;41:1510–1515
214. Pandey A, Vaduganathan M, Patel KV, et al. 
Biomarker-based risk prediction of incident heart 
failure in pre-diabetes and diabetes. JACC Heart 
Fail 2021;9:215–223
215. Rørth R, Jørgensen PG, Andersen HU, et al. 
Cardiovascular prognostic value of echocardiography 
and N terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide in 
type 1 diabetes: the Thousand & 1 Study. Eur J 
Endocrinol 2020;182:481–488
216. Gaede P, Vedel P, Larsen N, Jensen GVH, 
Parving H-H, Pedersen O. Multifactorial intervention 
and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2003;348:383–393
217. Gaede P, Hildebrandt P, Hess G, Parving 
H-H, Pedersen O. Plasma N-terminal pro-brain 
natriuretic peptide as a major risk marker for 
cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 
diabetes and microalbuminuria. Diabetologia 
2005;48:156–163
218. Redfield MM, Jacobsen SJ, Burnett JC, 
Mahoney DW, Bailey KR, Rodeheffer RJ. Burden 
of systolic and diastolic ventricular dysfunction in 
the community: appreciating the scope of the 
heart failure epidemic. JAMA 2003;289:194–202
219. Heidenreich PA, Bozkurt B, Aguilar D, et al. 
2022 
AHA/ACC/HFSA 
guideline 
for 
the 
management of heart failure: a report of the 
American College of Cardiology/American Heart 
Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice 
Guidelines. Circulation 2022;145:e895–e1032
220. Selvin E, Erlinger TP. Prevalence of and risk 
factors for peripheral arterial disease in the 
United States: results from the National Health 
and Nutrition Examination Survey, 1999-2000. 
Circulation 2004;110:738–743
221. Leibson CL, Ransom JE, Olson W, 
Zimmerman BR, O’fallon WM, Palumbo PJ. 
Peripheral arterial disease, diabetes, and 
mortality. Diabetes Care 2004;27:2843–2849
222. Murabito JM, D’Agostino RB, Silbershatz H, 
Wilson WF. Intermittent claudication. A risk 
profile from The Framingham Heart Study. 
Circulation 1997;96:44–49
223. Hirsch AT, Criqui MH, Treat-Jacobson D, et 
al. 
Peripheral 
arterial 
disease 
detection, 
awareness, and treatment in primary care. JAMA 
2001;286:1317–1324
224. Lange S, Diehm C, Darius H, et al. High 
prevalence of peripheral arterial disease and low 
treatment rates in elderly primary care patients 
with diabetes. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes 2004; 
112:566–573
225. Grøndal N, Søgaard R, Lindholt JS. Baseline 
prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysm, 
peripheral arterial disease and hypertension in 
men aged 65-74 years from a population 
screening study (VIVA trial). Br J Surg 2015;102: 
902–906
226. Adler AI, Stevens RJ, Neil A, Stratton IM, 
Boulton AJM, Holman RR. UKPDS 59: hyperglycemia 
and other potentially modifiable risk factors for 
peripheral vascular disease in type 2 diabetes. 
Diabetes Care 2002;25:894–899
227. Al-Delaimy WK, Merchant AT, Rimm EB, 
Willett WC, Stampfer MJ, Hu FB. Effect of type 2 
diabetes and its duration on the risk of peripheral 
arterial disease among men. Am J Med 2004; 
116:236–240
228. Beckman JA, Duncan MS, Damrauer SM, et 
al. Microvascular disease, peripheral artery 
disease, and amputation. Circulation 2019;140: 
449–458
229. Olesen KKW, Anand S, Thim T, Gyldenkerne 
C, Maeng M. Microvascular disease increases the 
risk of lower limb amputation–a Western Danish 
cohort study. Eur J Clin Invest 2022;52:e13812
230. Smolderen KG, Ameli O, Chaisson CE, 
Heath K, Mena-Hurtado C. Peripheral artery 
disease screening in the community and 1-year 
mortality, cardiovascular events, and adverse 
limb events. AJPM Focus 2022;1:100016
231. Smolderen KG, Heath K, Scherr T, Bauzon 
SR, Howell AN, Mena-Hurtado C. The Nevada 
peripheral artery disease screening effort in a 
Medicare Advantage population and subsequent 
mortality and major adverse cardiovascular event 
risk. J Vasc Surg 2022;75:2054–2064
232. Lindholt JS, Søgaard R. Population screening 
and intervention for vascular disease in Danish 
men (VIVA): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 
2017;390:2256–2265
233. Bonaca MP, Nault P, Giugliano RP, et al. 
Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering 
with evolocumab and outcomes in patients with 
peripheral artery disease: insights from the 
FOURIER trial (Further Cardiovascular Outcomes 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S243 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects With 
Elevated Risk). Circulation 2018;137:338–350
234. Eikelboom JW, Connolly SJ, Bosch J, et al.; 
COMPASS Investigators. Rivaroxaban with or 
without aspirin in stable cardiovascular disease. 
N Engl J Med 2017;377:1319–1330
235. Bonaca MP, Catarig A-M, Houlind K, et al.; 
STRIDE Trial Investigators. Semaglutide and walking 
capacity in people with symptomatic peripheral 
artery disease and type 2 diabetes (STRIDE): a 
phase 3b, double-blind, randomised, placebo- 
controlled trial. Lancet 2025;405:1580–1593
236. Wing RR, Bolin P, Brancati FL, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Research Group. Cardiovascular effects of 
intensive lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2013;369:145–154
237. Yusuf S, Sleight P, Pogue J, Bosch J, Davies R, 
Dagenais G; Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation 
Study Investigators. Effects of an angiotensin- 
converting-enzyme inhibitor, ramipril, on cardio- 
vascular events in high-risk patients. N Engl J Med 
2000;342:145–153
238. Braunwald E, Domanski MJ, Fowler SE, et al.; 
PEACE Trial Investigators. Angiotensin-converting- 
enzyme inhibition in stable coronary artery 
disease. N Engl J Med 2004;351:2058–2068
239. Filippatos G, Anker SD, Agarwal R, et al.; 
FIGARO-DKD Investigators. Finerenone reduces 
risk of incident heart failure in patients with 
chronic kidney disease and type 2 diabetes: 
analyses from the FIGARO-DKD trial. Circulation 
2022;145:437–447
240. Pitt B, Filippatos G, Agarwal R, et al.; 
FIGARO-DKD Investigators. Cardiovascular events 
with finerenone in kidney disease and type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2021;385:2252–2263
241. Agarwal R, Filippatos G, Pitt B, et al.; 
FIDELIO-DKD and FIGARO-DKD investigators. Cardio- 
vascular and kidney outcomes with finerenone in 
patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney 
disease: the FIDELITY pooled analysis. Eur Heart J 
2022;43:474–484
242. Anker SD, Butler J, Filippatos G, et al.; 
EMPEROR-Preserved Trial Investigators. Empagliflozin 
in heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction. N 
Engl J Med 2021;385:1451–1461
243. Kezerashvili A, Marzo K, De Leon J. Beta 
blocker use after acute myocardial infarction in 
the patient with normal systolic function: when is 
it “ok” to discontinue? Curr Cardiol Rev 2012;8: 
77–84
244. Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 
ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline 
for the diagnosis and management of patients 
with stable ischemic heart disease. J Am Coll 
Cardiol 2012;60:e44–e164
245. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
Guidance for Industry. Diabetes Mellitus— 
Evaluating Cardiovascular Risk in New Antidiabetic 
Therapies to Treat Type 2 Diabetes. Silver Spring, 
MD, 2008. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available 
from https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/ 
2008/12/19/E8-30086/guidance-for-industry-on- 
diabetes-mellitus-evaluating-cardiovascular-risk-in- 
new-antidiabetic
246. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
Diabetes Mellitus: Efficacy Endpoints for Clinical 
Trials Investigating Antidiabetic Drugs and 
Biological Products. Silver Spring, MD, 2023. 
Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https:// 
www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda- 
guidance-documents/diabetes-mellitus-efficacy- 
endpoints-clinical-trials-investigating-antidiabetic- 
drugs-and-biological
247. Neal B, Perkovic V, Mahaffey KW, et al.; 
CANVAS Program Collaborative Group. Canagliflozin 
and cardiovascular and renal events in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2017;377:644–657
248. Perkovic V, Jardine MJ, Neal B, et al.; 
CREDENCE Trial Investigators. Canagliflozin and 
renal outcomes in type 2 diabetes and 
nephropathy. N Engl J Med 2019;380:2295–2306
249. Cannon CP, Pratley R, Dagogo-Jack S, et al.; 
VERTIS CV Investigators. Cardiovascular outcomes 
with ertugliflozin in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 
2020;383:1425–1435
250. McMurray JJV, Solomon SD, Lock JP, et al. 
Meta-analysis of risk of major adverse cardio- 
vascular events in adults with type 2 diabetes 
treated with bexagliflozin. Diabetes Obes Metab 
2024;26:971–979
251. Marso SP, Daniels GH, Brown-Frandsen K, 
et al.; LEADER Trial Investigators. Liraglutide and 
cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N 
Engl J Med 2016;375:311–322
252. Marso SP, Bain SC, Consoli A, et al.; 
SUSTAIN-6 Investigators. Semaglutide and cardio- 
vascular outcomes in patients with type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2016;375:1834–1844
253. Gerstein HC, Colhoun HM, Dagenais GR, et 
al.; REWIND Investigators. Dulaglutide and 
cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes 
(REWIND): a double-blind, randomised placebo- 
controlled trial. Lancet 2019;394:121–130
254. Gerstein HC, Sattar N, Rosenstock J, et al.; 
AMPLITUDE-O Trial Investigators. Cardiovascular 
and renal outcomes with efpeglenatide in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2021;385:896–907
255. Lee MMY, Sattar N, Pop-Busui R, et al.; SOUL 
Trial Investigators. Cardiovascular and kidney 
outcomes and mortality with long-acting injectable 
and oral glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists 
in individuals with type 2 diabetes: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis of randomized trials. 
Diabetes Care 2025;48:846–859
256. Hernandez AF, Green JB, Janmohamed S, 
et al.; Harmony Outcomes committees and 
investigators. Albiglutide and cardiovascular 
outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes and 
cardiovascular disease (Harmony Outcomes): a 
double-blind, 
randomised placebo-controlled 
trial. Lancet 2018;392:1519–1529
257. Marx N, Deanfield JE, Mann JFE, et al.; 
SOUL Study Group. Oral semaglutide and 
cardiovascular outcomes in people with type 2 
diabetes, according to SGLT2i use: prespecified 
analyses of the SOUL randomized trial. Circulation 
2025;151:1639–1650
258. Rebelo TG, de Araujo Paysano MLB, 
Matheus GTFU, Ribeiro DM, Said TB, Kelly FA. 
Effects of oral semaglutide on cardiovascular 
outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Int J Cardiol 2025;440:133683
259. McGuire DK, Busui RP, Deanfield J, et al. 
Effects of oral semaglutide on cardiovascular 
outcomes in individuals with type 2 diabetes and 
established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease 
and/or chronic kidney disease: design and baseline 
characteristics of SOUL, a randomized trial. Dia- 
betes Obes Metab 2023;25:1932–1941
260. Holman RR, Bethel MA, Mentz RJ, et al.; 
EXSCEL Study Group. Effects of once-weekly 
exenatide on cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2017;377:1228–1239
261. National Library of Medicine. ClincalTrials.gov. 
A Study of Tirzepatide (LY3298176) Compared With 
Dulaglutide on Major Cardiovascular Events in 
Participants With Type 2 Diabetes (SURPASS-CVOT) 
(NCT04255433). Bethesda, MD, National Library of 
Medicine. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04255433
262. Zelniker TA, Wiviott SD, Raz I, et al. 
Comparison of the effects of glucagon-like peptide 
receptor agonists and sodium-glucose cotransporter 
2 inhibitors for prevention of major adverse 
cardiovascular and renal outcomes in type 2 
diabetes mellitus. Circulation 2019;139:2022–2031
263. Palmer SC, Tendal B, Mustafa RA, et al. 
Sodium-glucose cotransporter protein-2 (SGLT-2) 
inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptor agonists for type 2 diabetes: systematic 
review and network meta-analysis of randomised 
controlled trials. BMJ 2021;372:m4573
264. Zelniker TA, Wiviott SD, Raz I, et al. SGLT2 
inhibitors for primary and secondary prevention 
of cardiovascular and renal outcomes in type 2 
diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis 
of cardiovascular outcome trials. Lancet 2019;393: 
31–39
265. McGuire DK, Shih WJ, Cosentino F, et al. 
Association of SGLT2 inhibitors with cardiovascular 
and kidney outcomes in patients with type 2 
diabetes: a meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiol 2021;6: 
148–158
266. National Library of Medicine. ClincalTrial.gov. 
Sotagliflozin to Slow Kidney Function Decline in 
Persons With Type 1 Diabetes and Diabetic Kidney 
Disease (SUGARNSALT) (NCT06217302). Bethesda, 
MD, National Library of Medicine. Accessed 19 
August 2025. Available from https://clinicaltrials 
.gov/study/NCT06217302
267. Marx N, Rosenstock J, Kahn SE, et al. Design 
and baseline characteristics of the CARdiovascular 
Outcome Trial of LINAgliptin Versus Glimepiride in 
Type 2 Diabetes (CAROLINA). Diab Vasc Dis Res 
2015;12:164–174
268. Del Gobbo LC, Kalantarian S, Imamura F, et 
al. Contribution of major lifestyle risk factors for 
incident heart failure in older adults: the 
Cardiovascular Health Study. JACC Heart Fail 2015; 
3:520–528
269. Young DR, Reynolds K, Sidell M, et al. 
Effects of physical activity and sedentary time on 
the risk of heart failure. Circ Heart Fail 2014; 
7:21–27
270. Tektonidis TG, Åkesson A, Gigante B, Wolk 
A, Larsson SC. Adherence to a Mediterranean 
diet is associated with reduced risk of heart 
failure in men. Eur J Heart Fail 2016;18:253–259
271. Levitan EB, Wolk A, Mittleman MA. 
Consistency with the DASH diet and incidence of 
heart failure. Arch Intern Med 2009;169:851–857
272. Levy D, Larson MG, Vasan RS, Kannel WB, Ho 
KK. The 
progression 
from hypertension 
to 
congestive heart failure. JAMA 1996;275:1557–1562
273. UK Prospective Diabetes Study Group. Tight 
blood pressure control and risk of macrovascular 
and microvascular complications in type 2 
diabetes: UKPDS 38. BMJ 1998;317:703–713
274. Upadhya B, Rocco M, Lewis CE, et al.; 
SPRINT Research Group. Effect of intensive blood 
pressure treatment on heart failure events in the 
systolic blood pressure reduction intervention 
trial. Circ Heart Fail 2017;10:e003613
275. Yusuf S, Pitt B, Davis CE, Hood WB, Cohn JN; 
SOLVD Investigators. Effect of enalapril on morta- 
S244 
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management                                                       
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

lity and the development of heart failure in 
asymptomatic patients with reduced left ventricular 
ejection fractions. N Engl J Med 1992;327:685–691
276. Pfeffer MA, Braunwald E, Moyé LA, et al. 
Effect of captopril on mortality and morbidity in 
patients with left ventricular dysfunction after 
myocardial infarction. Results of the survival and 
ventricular enlargement trial. The SAVE Investigators. 
N Engl J Med 1992;327:669–677
277. Exner DV, Dries DL, Waclawiw MA, Shelton B, 
Domanski MJ. Beta-adrenergic blocking agent use 
and mortality in patients with asymptomatic and 
symptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction: a 
post hoc analysis of the Studies of Left Ventricular 
Dysfunction. J Am Coll Cardiol 1999;33:916–923
278. Vantrimpont P, Rouleau JL, Wun CC, et al. 
Additive beneficial effects of beta-blockers to 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the 
Survival and Ventricular Enlargement (SAVE) 
study. SAVE Investigators. J Am Coll Cardiol 1997; 
29:229–236
279. Dargie HJ. Effect of carvedilol on outcome 
after myocardial infarction in patients with left- 
ventricular dysfunction: the CAPRICORN randomised 
trial. Lancet 2001;357:1385–1390
280. Colucci WS, Kolias TJ, Adams KF, et al.; REVERT 
Study Group. Metoprolol reverses left ventricular 
remodeling in patients with asymptomatic systolic 
dysfunction: the REversal of VEntricular Remodeling 
with Toprol-XL (REVERT) trial. Circulation 2007;116: 
49–56
281. Zinman B, Wanner C, Lachin JM, et al.; 
EMPA-REG OUTCOME Investigators. Empagliflozin, 
cardiovascular outcomes, and mortality in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2015;373:2117–2128
282. Wiviott SD, Raz I, Bonaca MP, et al.; 
DECLARE–TIMI 58 Investigators. Dapagliflozin 
and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2019;380:347–357
283. Bhatt DL, Szarek M, Pitt B, et al.; SCORED 
Investigators. Sotagliflozin in patients with diabetes 
and chronic kidney disease. N Engl J Med 2021; 
384:129–139
284. Pratley RE, Tuttle KR, Rossing P, et al.; 
FLOW Trial Committees and Investigators. Effects 
of semaglutide on heart failure outcomes in 
diabetes and chronic kidney disease in the FLOW 
trial. J Am Coll Cardiol 2024;84:1615–1628
285. Bakris GL, Agarwal R, Anker SD, et al.; 
FIDELIO-DKD Investigators. Effect of finerenone 
on chronic kidney disease outcomes in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2020;383:2219–2229
286. Fitchett D, Butler J, van de Borne P, et al.; 
EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial investigators. Effects 
of empagliflozin on risk for cardiovascular death 
and heart failure hospitalization across the 
spectrum of heart failure risk in the EMPA-REG 
OUTCOME trial. Eur Heart J 2018;39:363–370
287. McMurray JJV, Solomon SD, Inzucchi SE, et 
al.; DAPA-HF Trial Committees and Investiga- 
tors. Dapagliflozin in patients with heart failure 
and reduced ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 
2019;381:1995–2008
288. Arnott C, Li Q, Kang A, et al. Sodium-glucose 
cotransporter 2 inhibition for the prevention of 
cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta- 
analysis. J Am Heart Assoc 2020;9:e014908
289. Nassif ME, Windsor SL, Borlaug BA, et al. 
The SGLT2 inhibitor dapagliflozin in heart failure 
with preserved ejection fraction: a multicenter 
randomized trial. Nat Med 2021;27:1954–1960
290. Solomon SD, McMurray JJV, Claggett B, 
et al.; DELIVER Trial Committees and Investigators. 
Dapagliflozin in heart failure with mildly reduced or 
preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2022; 
387:1089–1098
291. Packer M, Anker SD, Butler J, et al.; 
EMPEROR-Reduced Trial Investigators. Cardio- 
vascular and renal outcomes with empagliflozin 
in heart failure. N Engl J Med 2020;383: 
1413–1424
292. Packer M, Anker SD, Butler J, et al. Effect of 
empagliflozin on the clinical stability of patients 
with heart failure and a reduced ejection 
fraction: the EMPEROR-Reduced trial. Circulation 
2021;143:326–336
293. Voors AA, Angermann CE, Teerlink JR, et al. 
The SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin in patients 
hospitalized for acute heart failure: a multinational 
randomized trial. Nat Med 2022;28:568–574
294. Spertus JA, Birmingham MC, Nassif M, et 
al. The SGLT2 inhibitor canagliflozin in heart 
failure: the CHIEF-HF remote, patient-centered 
randomized trial. Nat Med 2022;28:809–813
295. American Diabetes Association Professional 
Practice Committee. 10. Cardiovascular disease 
and risk management: Standards of Care in 
Diabetes—2024. Diabetes Care 2024;47:S179–
S218
296. Bhatt DL, Szarek M, Steg PG, et al.; 
SOLOIST-WHF Trial Investigators. Sotagliflozin in 
patients with diabetes and recent worsening 
heart failure. N Engl J Med 2021;384:117–128
297. Vaduganathan M, Docherty KF, Claggett BL, 
et al. SGLT-2 inhibitors in patients with heart 
failure: a comprehensive meta-analysis of five 
randomised controlled trials. Lancet 2022;400: 
757–767
298. Musso G, Sircana A, Saba F, Cassader M, 
Gambino R. Assessing the risk of ketoacidosis due to 
sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT)-2 inhibitors in 
patients with type 1 diabetes: a meta-analysis and 
meta-regression. PLoS Med 2020;17:e1003461
299. Danne T, Garg S, Peters AL, et al. International 
consensus on risk management of diabetic keto- 
acidosis in patients with type 1 diabetes treated 
with sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT) inhibitors. 
Diabetes Care 2019;42:1147–1154
300. Holt RIG, DeVries JH, Hess-Fischl A, et al. 
The management of type 1 diabetes in adults. A 
consensus report by the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) and the European Association 
for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care 
2021;44:2589–2625
301. Palanca A, van Nes F, Pardo F, Ampudia 
Blasco FJ, Mathieu C. Real-world evidence of 
efficacy and safety of sglt2 inhibitors as 
adjunctive therapy in adults with type 1 diabetes: 
a European Two-Center Experience. Diabetes 
Care 2022;45:650–658
302. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 2019 
Meeting Materials, January 17, 2019, Meeting 
of the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs 
Advisory Committee, 2019. Accessed 19 August 
2025. Available from https://web.archive.org/ 
web/20190207212714/https://www.fda.gov/ 
downloads/AdvisoryCommittees/Committees- 
MeetingMaterials/Drugs/Endocrinologicand- 
MetabolicDrugsAdvisoryCommittee/UCM629782.pdf
303. Solomon SD, McMurray JJV, Vaduganathan M, 
et al.; FINEARTS-HF Committees and Investigators. 
Finerenone in heart failure with mildly reduced or 
preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2024; 
391:1475–1485
304. Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Xu H, DeVore AD, et al. 
Temporal trends and factors associated with 
diabetes mellitus among patients hospitalized with 
heart failure: findings from Get With The Guidelines- 
Heart Failure registry. Am Heart J 2016;182:9–20
305. Haass M, Kitzman DW, Anand IS, et al. Body 
mass index and adverse cardiovascular outcomes 
in heart failure patients with preserved ejection 
fraction: results from the Irbesartan in Heart 
Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (I- 
PRESERVE) trial. Circ Heart Fail 2011;4:324–331
306. Kosiborod MN, Petrie MC, Borlaug BA, et 
al.; STEP-HFpEF DM Trial Committees and 
Investigators. Semaglutide in patients with 
obesity-related heart failure and type 2 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2024;390:1394–1407
307. Packer M, Zile MR, Kramer CM, et al.; 
SUMMIT Trial Study Group. Tirzepatide for heart 
failure with preserved ejection fraction and 
obesity. N Engl J Med 2025;392:427–437
308. Dormandy JA, Charbonnel B, Eckland DJA, 
et al.; PROactive Investigators. Secondary 
prevention of macrovascular events in patients 
with type 2 diabetes in the PROactive Study 
(PROspective pioglitAzone Clinical Trial In macro- 
Vascular Events): a randomised controlled trial. 
Lancet 2005;366:1279–1289
309. Lincoff AM, Wolski K, Nicholls SJ, Nissen SE. 
Pioglitazone and risk of cardiovascular events in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta- 
analysis of randomized trials. JAMA 2007;298: 
1180–1188
310. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA 
drug safety communication: FDA revises warnings 
regarding use of the diabetes medicine metformin 
in certain patients with reduced kidney function, 
2016. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from 
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and- 
availability/fda-drug-safety-communication-fda- 
revises-warnings-regarding-use-diabetes-medicine- 
metformin-certain
311. Scirica BM, Bhatt DL, Braunwald E, et al.; 
SAVOR-TIMI 53 Steering Committee and 
Investigators. Saxagliptin and cardiovascular 
outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. N Engl J Med 2013;369:1317–1326
312. Zannad F, Cannon CP, Cushman WC, et al.; 
EXAMINE Investigators. Heart failure and mortality 
outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes taking 
alogliptin versus placebo in EXAMINE: a 
multicentre, randomised, double-blind trial. 
Lancet 2015;385:2067–2076
313. Green JB, Bethel MA, Armstrong PW, et al.; 
TECOS Study Group. Effect of sitagliptin on 
cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N 
Engl J Med 2015;373:232–242
314. Rosenstock J, Perkovic V, Johansen OE, et 
al.; CARMELINA Investigators. Effect of linagliptin 
vs placebo on major cardiovascular events in 
adults 
with 
type 
2 
diabetes 
and 
high 
cardiovascular and renal risk: the CARMELINA 
randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2019;321:69–79
315. American Diabetes Association Primary 
Care Advisory Group. Cardiovascular disease and 
risk management: Standards of Care in Diabetes— 
2024 abridged for primary care professionals. Clin 
Diabetes 2024;42:209–211
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                           
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management
S245 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026
