13. Older Adults: Standards of
Care in Diabetes—2026
Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S277–S296 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S013
American Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee for 
Diabetes*
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” in-
cludes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to 
provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guide-
lines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional 
Practice Committee for Diabetes, an interprofessional expert committee, are re-
sponsible for updating the Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as war-
ranted. For a detailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as 
well as the evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations 
and a full list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to 
Introduction and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the Standards 
of Care are invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.
Recommendations
13.1 Assess the medical, psychological, functional (self-management abilities), 
and social domains in older adults with diabetes using a comprehensive ap-
proach to determine goals and therapeutic approaches for diabetes manage-
ment. B
13.2 Screen at least annually for geriatric syndromes (e.g., cognitive impairment, 
depression, urinary incontinence, falls, persistent pain, and frailty), hypoglycemia, 
and polypharmacy in older adults with diabetes, as they may affect diabetes 
management and diminish quality of life. B
Diabetes is a highly prevalent health condition in the aging population. Over 29% 
of people over the age of 65 years have diabetes (1,2). The number of older adults 
living with diabetes is expected to increase rapidly in the coming decades as the 
population ages and the effects of increasing obesity rates manifest in this popula-
tion (3). Importantly, diabetes in older adults is a highly heterogeneous condition. 
While type 2 diabetes predominates in the older population (as in the younger 
population), improvements in insulin delivery, technology, and care over the last 
few decades have led to increasing numbers of people with childhood and adult- 
onset type 1 diabetes surviving and thriving into their later decades. Type 1 diabe-
tes is increasingly diagnosed in older adulthood as well, with greater awareness of 
and attention to appropriate diabetes classification across the life course, with 
higher incidence in Western countries (4).
Diabetes management in older adults requires regular assessment of medical, psy-
chological, functional, and social domains. When assessing older adults with diabetes, it 
is important to accurately categorize the type of diabetes, diabetes duration, the pres-
ence of complications and comorbidities, the individual’s capacity for self-management 
and availability of support systems, treatment burden, and treatment-related 
concerns, such as fear of hypoglycemia, polypharmacy, and financial barriers. Screening for 
*A complete list of members of the American 
Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee 
for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/ 
10.2337/dc26-SINT.
This section has received endorsement from the 
American Geriatrics Society.
Duality of interest information for each contributor 
is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.
Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 13. 
Older adults: Standards of Care in Diabetes— 
2026. Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S277–S296
© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. 
Readers may use this work for educational, 
noncommercial purposes if properly cited and 
unaltered. The version of record may be linked 
at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA 
permission is required to post this work on any 
third-party site or platform. This publication and its 
contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or 
used for text or data mining, machine learning, 
or similar technologies without prior written 
permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute 
this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes 
.org. More information is available at https:// 
diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.
13. OLDER ADULTS
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026
S277
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

diabetes complications in older adults 
should be individualized and periodically 
revisited, as this may affect treatment 
goals and therapeutic approaches (5–7). 
Older adults with diabetes have higher 
rates of functional disability, accelerated 
muscle loss, mobility impairment, frailty, 
and coexisting illnesses, such as hyper-
tension, chronic kidney disease, coronary 
heart disease, stroke, and premature 
death than those without diabetes (2,8). 
They also have higher rates of common ge-
riatric syndromes such as cognitive impair-
ment, depression, urinary incontinence, 
falls, persistent pain, frailty, and polyphar-
macy (1). These conditions may affect 
older adults’ diabetes self-management 
abilities and quality of life, particularly if 
unaddressed, and older adults with dia-
betes often require greater caregiver 
support than those without diabetes 
(2,9–11). See section 4, “Comprehensive 
Medical Evaluation and Assessment of 
Comorbidities,” for the full range of is-
sues to consider when caring for older 
adults with diabetes.
The Institute for Healthcare Improve-
ment has developed an evidence-based 
“4Ms” framework for age-friendly health 
care that is being adopted by many health 
systems caring for older adults. The key el-
ements of this approach are Mentation, 
Medications, Mobility, and What Matters 
Most, with each element affecting the 
others (12). The 4Ms framework provides 
a helpful conceptual model to address 
person-specific issues that may be interre-
lated and affect diabetes management in 
older individuals (Fig. 13.1) and offers a 
framework to establish individualized treat-
ment goals and approaches (13–15), includ-
ing delivery of diabetes self-management 
education (particularly when complicat-
ing factors arise or when transitions in 
care occur) and whether the current 
plan is too complex for the individual’s 
self-management ability or for the care 
partners providing care (16). Particular 
attention should be paid to complica-
tions that can develop over short periods 
of time and/or would significantly impair 
functional status, such as visual and lower- 
extremity complications. Table 13.1 sug-
gests a structured approach to screening 
for common geriatric syndromes and other 
causes of functional impairment using key 
screening questions, followed by validated 
screening tools when specific geriatric syn-
dromes are suspected, as well as resources 
for scoring. These tools should be used 
when clinically indicated and can be 
performed by any member of the dia-
betes care team. Importantly, the gen-
eral care principles discussed here apply 
to all individuals with complex health 
needs and are not limited to older adults.
NEUROCOGNITIVE FUNCTION
Recommendation
13.3 Screening for early detection of 
mild cognitive impairment or demen-
tia should be performed for adults 
65 years of age or older at the initial 
visit, annually, and as appropriate. B
Older adults with diabetes are at higher 
risk of cognitive decline and institution-
alization than older adults without dia-
betes (17–19). Presentation of cognitive 
impairment ranges from subtle execu-
tive dysfunction to memory loss to 
overt dementia. People with diabetes 
have higher incidences of all-cause de-
mentia, Alzheimer disease, and vascular 
dementia than people without diabetes 
(20). People with Alzheimer disease or 
other dementias are more likely to de-
velop diabetes than those without it; this 
possible link emphasizes critical metabolic 
processes that contribute to neurodegen-
eration (21). Both hyperglycemia and hy-
poglycemia are associated with a decline 
in cognitive function (22,23), and longer 
duration of diabetes is associated with 
worsening cognitive function. A newly 
MEDICATIONS
•
Risk of hypoglycemia, hypoglycemia
 
 
unawareness, and fear of hypoglycemia
•
Treatment burden
•
Affordability or insurance coverage
•
End-organ disease or complications
affecting medication choice
•
Polypharmacy
•
History of adverse medication effects
•
Social and family support
MOBILITY
•
Foot complications
•
Functional ability
•
Frailty and sarcopenia
•
Gait imbalance and dizziness
•
Neuropathy
•
Vision and hearing impairment
•
Discussing goals and expectations
•
Symptom and disease burden
•
Meal and treatment preferences
(e.g., injections and glucose monitoring)
•
Risks, burdens, and benefits of treatment
•
Loneliness, social isolation, and overall
quality of life
•
Life expectancy
MENTATION
•
Self-administration of medications
•
Ability to use diabetes technology
•
Anxiety, depression, and diabetes distress
•
Mild cognitive impairment or dementia
•
Coping skills and self-care
Using the 4Ms framework of age-friendly health systems to address
person-specific issues that can affect diabetes management
WHAT MATTERS MOST
Figure 13.1—Using the 4Ms framework of age-friendly health systems to address person-specific issues that can affect diabetes management. 
S278 
Older Adults
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 13.1—Geriatric syndromes and other functional impairments: key symptoms and suggested screening approaches
Domain
Sample screening 
questions
Suggested screening 
measure
No. of items
Score  
range
Cut points
Time to  
complete
Measure translated 
languages
Geriatric syndromes
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Cognitive impairment  
or dementia
Have you noticed any 
changes in your 
memory or ability to 
think clearly?
Mini-Cog (31)
5
0–5
<3 validated for 
dementia screening
3 min
Multiple
Delirium
What day of the week is 
it?
4AT (182)
4
0–12
≥4 possible delirium
2 min
Multiple
Depression
During the past month, 
have you often been 
bothered by feeling 
down, depressed, or 
hopeless?
Geriatric Depression Scale 
5 (GDS-5) (183,184)
5
0–5
≥2 possible depression
2 min
Multiple
Falls and risk of falling
Have you fallen in the 
past year or are you 
afraid of falling due to a 
balance or walking 
problem?
STEADI tool (185)
3
0–3
A single “yes” response 
to any question 
indicates an 
increased risk of 
falling
1–2 min
Multiple
Frailty
Have you felt unusually 
tired recently or had 
difficulty walking up 
steps without resting?
Clinical Frailty Scale 
(CFS) (186)
1
1–9
≥5 clinically meaningful 
frailty
1–2 min
Multiple
Malnutrition
Have you unintentionally 
lost weight in the last 6 
months?
Mini Nutritional 
Assessment Short Form 
(MNA-SF) (187)
6
0–14
12–14, normal 
nutritional status; 
8–11, at risk for 
malnutrition; 0–7, 
malnourished
5 min
Multiple
Pain
Are you currently 
experiencing any pain?
Numeric Pain Rating Scale
1
0–10
1–3, mild; 4–6, 
moderate; 7–10, 
severe
1–2 min
NA
Polypharmacy
Are you taking more 
medications than you 
think you should, or are 
you experiencing side 
effects?
Beers Criteria or review all 
prescription and 
nonprescription 
medications (188)
List review
NA
The presence of any 
medication on the 
list warrants review, 
especially if the risk 
outweighs the 
benefit
Varies
Multiple
Sarcopenia
Have you had difficulty 
walking across a room 
or climbing a flight of 
stairs in the past year?
SARC-F 
Questionnaire (189)
5
0–10
≥4 sarcopenia risk
2–3 min
Multiple
Sensory impairment:  
hearing
Do you have difficulty 
hearing, even when 
using a hearing aid?
Whisper test (190)
6
NA
Possible hearing loss: 
unable to repeat at 
least 3 of the 
random letters and 
numbers
2–3 min
NA
Continued on p. S280
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S279 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 13.1—Continued 
Domain
Sample screening 
questions
Suggested screening 
measure
No. of items
Score  
range
Cut points
Time to  
complete
Measure translated 
languages
Sensory impairment:  
vision
Do you have difficulty 
seeing, even when 
wearing your glasses?
Snellen chart
1
NA
20/40 or worse 
indicates vision 
impairment
2–3 min
NA
Sleep disorders: insomnia
Do you have trouble 
falling asleep, staying 
asleep, or waking up 
too early and not being 
able to fall back asleep?
Insomnia Severity Index 7 
(ISI-7) (191)
7
0–28
≥8 insomnia
3 min
Multiple
Urinary incontinence
Do you have trouble with 
bladder control or 
accidental leakage?
3 Incontinence Questions 
(3IQ) (192)
3
NA
The tool classifies type 
of incontinence 
based on responses
1–2 min
Multiple
Functional impairments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Dexterity
Do you have trouble using 
your hands for everyday 
tasks like buttoning 
clothes?
Button and coin test: 
button and unbutton a 
shirt button and pick up 
a small coin from a flat 
surface
2
0–2
0, significant 
impairment; 1, mild 
to moderate 
impairment; 2, 
limited to no 
impairment
1–2 min
NA
Dizziness
Do you experience 
dizziness, feeling 
lightheaded, or a feeling 
of spinning (vertigo)? 
Have you noticed any 
changes in your balance 
or steadiness?
Orthostatic vital signs; 
neurological 
examination (e.g., 
assessment of gait, 
balance, reflexes, 
sensory loss, vestibular 
function); medical 
evaluation
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Executive functioning
Do you find it hard to 
plan or organize your 
daily activities?
Trail Making Test B
25
Time to finish
≥180 s indicates 
impairment in 
executive function
3–5 min
Multiple
This table summarizes key symptoms and suggested screening approaches for common geriatric syndromes and other functional impairments that can be present in older adults with diabetes. NA, not 
applicable.
S280 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

recognized clinical entity, diabetes-related 
dementia, is emerging as distinct from Alz-
heimer disease and vascular dementia. Di-
abetes-related dementia is characterized 
by a slower progression of dementia, ab-
sence of typical neuroimaging findings, ad-
vanced age, elevated A1C levels, long 
duration of diabetes, high frequency of in-
sulin use, frailty, sarcopenia, and dynape-
nia (loss of muscle strength not caused by 
neurologic or muscular diseases) (23). On-
going studies are evaluating whether life-
style interventions may help to maintain 
cognitive function in older adults (24). 
However, studies on diabetes prevention 
or intensive glycemic and blood pressure 
management have not demonstrated a 
reduction in cognitive decline (25,26). 
Several glucose-lowering drugs, such as 
thiazolidinediones, glucagon-like peptide 
1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) and 
sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) 
inhibitors, have shown small benefits on 
slowing progression of cognitive decline 
(27). A systematic review and meta- 
analysis found that although cardiopro-
tective glucose-lowering therapies were 
not associated with a reduction in all- 
cause dementia, GLP-1 RAs were as-
sociated with a statistically significant 
reduction in all-cause dementia (28). 
Notably, cardiovascular risk factors are 
also associated with an increased risk of 
cognitive decline and dementia. Man-
agement of blood pressure and choles-
terol lowering with statins have been 
associated with a reduced risk of incident 
dementia and are, thus, particularly im-
portant in older adults with diabetes.
Older adults with diabetes should be 
carefully screened and monitored for cog-
nitive impairment (2). Several assessment 
tools are available to screen for cognitive 
impairment (29,30), such as the Mini-Cog 
(31), Mini-Mental State Examination (32), 
and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment 
(33), which may help identify individuals 
with dementia (who are experiencing mem-
ory loss, a decrease in executive function, 
and declines in their basic and instrumen-
tal activities of daily living) or those requir-
ing neuropsychological evaluation when 
dementia is suspected. Annual screening 
is indicated for adults 65 years of age or 
older for early detection of mild cognitive 
impairment or dementia (6,34). Screening 
for cognitive impairment should also be 
performed when an individual presents 
with a significant decline in clinical status 
due to increased problems with self-care 
activities and medication management, such 
as errors in calculating insulin dose, diffi-
culty counting carbohydrates, skipped 
meals, skipped insulin doses, and difficulty 
recognizing, preventing, or treating hypo-
glycemia. People who screen positive for 
cognitive impairment should receive diag-
nostic assessment as appropriate, including 
referral to a behavioral health professional 
for formal cognitive and neuropsychologi-
cal evaluation if indicated and feasible (35).
Identifying cognitive impairment early 
has important implications for diabetes 
care. The presence of cognitive impairment 
can make it challenging to reach individual-
ized glycemic, blood pressure, and lipid 
goals. Cognitive dysfunction may make it 
difficult for individuals to perform complex 
self-care tasks (29), such as monitoring glu-
cose, administering and adjusting insulin 
doses, and maintaining the timing and nu-
tritional content of meals. These factors 
increase risk for hypoglycemia, which, in 
turn, can worsen cognitive function and 
have multiple other adverse effects in older 
individuals with diabetes. When cognitive 
dysfunction is identified, it is therefore es-
sential to simplify care plans and engage 
the appropriate support structure to assist 
aging individuals with diabetes in all as-
pects of their care.
HYPOGLYCEMIA
Recommendations
13.4 Ascertain and address episodes 
of hypoglycemia at routine visits 
because older adults with diabetes 
have a greater risk of hypoglycemia, 
especially when treated with hypo-
glycemic agents (e.g., sulfonylureas, 
meglitinides, and insulin). B
13.5 Recommend continuous glucose 
monitoring (CGM) for older adults with 
type 1 diabetes A and type 2 diabetes 
on insulin therapy B to improve glyce-
mic outcomes, reduce hypoglycemia, 
and reduce treatment burden.
13.6 Consider the use of automated 
insulin delivery systems B and other 
advanced insulin delivery devices such 
as connected pens E to reduce risk of 
hypoglycemia for older adults, based 
on individual ability and support 
system.
Older adults may be at higher risk of hy-
poglycemia for many reasons, including 
irregular meal intake, particularly in the 
setting of requiring insulin therapy, and 
worsening kidney function (36). As de-
scribed above, older adults have higher 
rates of cognitive impairment and demen-
tia, leading to difficulties in performing 
complex self-care activities (e.g., glucose 
monitoring, insulin administration and dose 
adjustment). Cognitive decline has been as-
sociated with increased risk of hypoglyce-
mia, and conversely, severe hypoglycemia 
has been linked to increased risk of demen-
tia (37–39). Therefore, as discussed in 
Recommendation 13.3, it is important 
to routinely screen older adults for cog-
nitive impairment and dementia and dis-
cuss findings with the individuals and 
their care partners.
People with diabetes and their care 
partners should be routinely queried 
about any history of hypoglycemic events, 
impaired hypoglycemia awareness, and 
fear of hypoglycemia as discussed in 
section 6, “Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, 
and Hyperglycemic Crises.” Symptoms 
and signs of hypoglycemia are also dis-
cussed in section 6 and are of value to care 
partners of individuals with cognitive im-
pairment who may not be able to report 
hypoglycemia symptoms. Older adults can 
also be stratified for future risk for hypogly-
cemia with validated risk calculators (e.g., 
Kaiser Hypoglycemia Model for adults 
with type 2 diabetes) (40) and with con-
sideration of hypoglycemia risk factors 
(Table 6.5). An important step to miti-
gate hypoglycemia risk is to determine 
whether the person with diabetes is 
skipping meals or has difficulty correctly 
taking and dosing their glucose-lowering 
medications. Glycemic goals and phar-
macologic treatments may need to be 
adjusted to minimize the occurrence of 
hypoglycemic events, prioritizing use of 
medications at low risk for hypoglycemia 
and other adverse effects (41). This rec-
ommendation is also supported by results 
from multiple randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs), such as the Action to Control Cardio-
vascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) study 
and the Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial 
(VADT), which showed that intensive treat-
ment protocols aimed to achieve an A1C 
<6.0% with complex drug plans signifi-
cantly increased the risk for hypoglycemia 
requiring assistance compared with stan-
dard treatment (42,43). However, these 
intensive treatment plans included exten-
sive use of insulin and minimal use of 
GLP-1 RAs, and they preceded the avail-
ability of SGLT2 inhibitors. Hypoglycemia 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S281 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

may also be precipitated by acute illness 
and other stressful events such as trauma 
or surgery. During these events, older 
adults and their care partners should be 
provided individualized guidance on glycemic 
monitoring and adjustment of glucose- 
lowering medications to prevent hypogly-
cemia. See INTERCURRENT ILLNESS in section 6, 
“Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, and 
Hyperglycemic Crises,” for more details.
Use of Continuous Glucose 
Monitoring and Advanced Insulin 
Delivery Devices
Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) 
devices have been shown to be effective 
at improving glycemic management and 
acceptable to people of all age-groups, 
including older individuals with type 1 di-
abetes (44–48) or insulin-requiring type 2 
diabetes (49,50). Additionally, benefits have 
been shown with CGM use in older individ-
uals not treated with insulin, particularly 
for reducing hypoglycemia and improving 
other glycemic outcomes. Importantly, it 
may take longer for older adults to learn 
and gain facility with new technology and it 
may be beneficial to engage their care-
givers in the process. Moreover, it is im-
portant to assess a person’s cognitive and 
functional capacity for using technology 
and to ensure availability of engagement 
and support of the care partner, if appro-
priate (51). CGM may also be useful for 
glucose monitoring in older adults with 
physical and/or cognitive limitations who 
require monitoring of blood glucose by a 
surrogate and in those who reside in 
group homes, assisted living facilities, or 
other post-acute long-term care settings.
Advanced insulin delivery devices have 
similarly been shown to improve glycemic 
outcomes in small studies conducted 
among older adults. The Older Adult 
Closed Loop (ORACL) trial in 30 older 
adults (mean age 67 years) with type 1 
diabetes found that an automated insu-
lin delivery (AID) strategy was associ-
ated with significant improvements in 
time in range (TIR), as well as modest im-
provements in hypoglycemia, compared 
with sensor-augmented pump therapy 
(52). In a different open-label, crossover 
design clinical trial in 37 older adults 
(aged ≥60 years), 16 weeks of treatment 
with a hybrid closed-loop advanced insu-
lin delivery system improved TIR and 
reduced time above range compared 
with sensor-augmented pump therapy; 
however, in contrast to the ORACL study, 
no significant differences in hypoglyce-
mia were observed (53). Both studies 
enrolled older individuals whose blood 
glucose was relatively well managed at 
baseline (mean A1C ∼7.4%). A later RCT 
of older adults with type 2 diabetes us-
ing multiple daily injections who were 
unable to manage insulin therapy on 
their own demonstrated an increase of 
TIR of 27% over 12 weeks of AID use in 
addition to tailored home health care 
services (54). More recently, in the Auto-
mated Insulin Delivery in Elderly With 
Type 1 Diabetes (AIDE T1D) study that in-
cluded 82 adults aged 65 years and older, 
participants randomized to AID use expe-
rienced less hypoglycemia than those 
randomized to hybrid closed loop, predic-
tive low glucose suspend, and sensor- 
augmented pump therapy in a crossover 
design (55). In the extension phase of 
the study, 91% of the participants chose 
the AID system (55). Finally, a real-world 
evidence analysis of a Medicare popula-
tion (4,243 individuals, 89% with type 1 
diabetes, mean age 67.4 years) also in-
dicated that initiating hybrid closed- 
loop insulin delivery was associated with 
improvements in mean glucose and a 
10% increase in TIR (56). These studies 
provide evidence that older individuals 
with type 1 and type 2 diabetes can suc-
cessfully use advanced insulin delivery 
technologies to improve glycemic out-
comes, as has been seen in younger 
populations.
TREATMENT GOALS
Recommendations
13.7a Older adults with diabetes with 
few and stable coexisting chronic 
illnesses, and intact cognitive and 
functional status, should have lower 
glycemic goals (such as A1C <7.0–7.5% 
[<53–58 mmol/mol]) and/or time 
in range [TIR] 70–180 mg/dL [3.9–
10.0 mmol/L] of ≥70% and time be-
low range ≤70 mg/dL [≤3.9 mmol/L] 
of ≤4%) if CGM is used. C
13.7b Older adults with diabetes and 
intermediate or complex health are 
clinically heterogeneous with variable 
life expectancy. Selection of glycemic 
goals should be individualized and 
should prioritize avoidance of hypo-
glycemia, with less stringent goals (such 
as A1C <8.0% [<64 mmol/mol] and/or 
TIR 70–180 mg/dL [3.9–10.0 mmol/L] 
of ≥50% and time below range 
<70 mg/dL [3.9 mmol/L] of <1%) 
for those with significant cognitive 
and/or functional limitations, frailty, 
severe comorbidities, and a less fa-
vorable risk-to-benefit ratio of diabe-
tes medications. C
13.7c Older adults with very complex 
or poor health receive minimal benefit 
from stringent glycemic goals. Clinicians 
should focus on avoiding hypoglycemia 
and symptomatic hyperglycemia. C
13.8 Screening for diabetes compli-
cations should be individualized in 
older adults with diabetes. Prioritize 
screening for complications that would 
lead to impairment of functional status 
or quality of life. C
13.9 The on-treatment blood pres-
sure goal for most older adults with 
diabetes is <130/80 mmHg when it 
can be achieved safely, A and more 
a relaxed blood pressure goal (e.g., 
<140/90 mmHg) may be used for 
people with poor health, limited life 
expectancy, or high risk for adverse 
effects of hypertensive therapy. E
13.10 Treatment of other cardiovas-
cular risk factors should be individu-
alized in older adults with diabetes, 
considering the time frame of bene-
fit. Lipid-lowering therapy and anti-
platelet agents may benefit those 
with life expectancies at least equal 
to the time frame of primary preven-
tion or secondary intervention trials. A
As for all people with diabetes, diabetes 
self-management education and ongo-
ing diabetes self-management support 
are vital components of diabetes care 
for older adults and their caregivers. Self- 
management knowledge and skills should 
be reassessed following a significant clini-
cal change or hospitalization, when treat-
ment plan changes are made, or when an 
individual’s functional abilities diminish. In 
addition, declining or impaired ability to 
perform diabetes self-care behaviors may 
be an indication that an older person with 
diabetes needs a referral for cognitive and 
physical functional assessment, using age- 
normalized evaluation tools, as well as help 
establishing a support structure for diabetes 
care (5,35). See Table 13.1 for screening 
and evaluation tools for geriatric syndromes 
and other functional impairments.
The care of older adults with diabetes 
is complicated by their clinical, cognitive, 
and functional heterogeneity and their 
S282 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

varied prior experience with disease man-
agement. Some older individuals may 
have developed diabetes years earlier 
and have significant complications, others 
are newly diagnosed and may have had 
years of undiagnosed diabetes with resul-
tant complications, and still, other older 
adults may have truly recent-onset dis-
ease with few or no complications (57). 
Some older adults with diabetes have 
other underlying chronic conditions, sub-
stantial diabetes-related comorbidity, lim-
ited cognitive or physical functioning, or 
frailty (58,59). Other older individuals 
with diabetes have little comorbidity and 
intact cognitive and physical functioning.
Life expectancy is affected by the age 
of the individual, disease burden, and de-
grees of frailty and disability. Multiple 
prognostic tools for life expectancy for 
older adults are available (60,61). The Life 
Expectancy Estimator for Older Adults 
with Diabetes (LEAD) tool was developed 
and validated among older adults with di-
abetes, and a high risk score was strongly 
associated with having a life expectancy 
of <5 years (62). These data may be a 
useful starting point to inform decisions 
about selecting less stringent glycemic 
goals, particularly when more stringent 
goals may necessitate use of pharmaco-
therapies with higher risk of hypoglyce-
mia and other adverse effect profiles 
(62,63). Older adults also vary in their 
preferences for the intensity and mode 
of glucose management (64). Health care 
professionals caring for older adults with 
diabetes must take this heterogeneity 
into consideration when engaging people 
with diabetes in shared decision-making 
to establish treatment goals (14,15,41) 
(Table 13.2). In addition, older adults 
with diabetes should be assessed for dis-
ease treatment and self-management 
knowledge, health literacy, and mathe-
matical literacy (numeracy) at the onset 
and throughout treatment. Limited time 
for medical visits, and competing priori-
ties such as acute problems or change in 
living situation or social support, can 
make implementation of these recom-
mendations challenging. See Fig. 6.1 for 
individual/disease-related factors to con-
sider when determining individualized 
glycemic goals.
A1C results may be inaccurate in those 
who have received blood transfusions and 
who have medical conditions that affect 
red blood cell turnover (see section 2, 
“Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes,” 
for additional details on the limitations of 
A1C) (65). Conditions affecting red blood 
cell turnover that are common in older 
adults include kidney failure, recent sig-
nificant blood loss, and erythropoietin 
therapy. In these instances, blood glucose 
monitoring and/or CGM should be used 
for glycemic goal setting (Table 13.2). Se-
rum glycated protein assays such as fruc-
tosamine may also be useful for glycemic 
monitoring in conjunction with other 
measures (see section 6, “Glycemic Goals, 
Hypoglycemia, and Hyperglycemic Crises”) 
(66–68).
Older Adults With Good Functional 
Status and Without Complications
There are few long-term studies in older 
adults demonstrating the benefits of in-
tensive glycemic, blood pressure, and lipid 
management. Older adults who can be ex-
pected to live long enough to realize the 
benefits of long-term intensive diabetes 
management, who have good cognitive 
and physical function, and who experi-
ence little (or acceptable to them) burden 
of treatment may be treated using thera-
peutic interventions and goals similar to 
those for younger adults with diabetes 
(Table 13.2).
Older Adults With Complications and 
Reduced Functionality
Older adults with diabetes categorized as 
having complex or intermediate health 
(Table 13.2) are still heterogeneous with 
respect to their function and life expec-
tancy (69–71). Based on concepts of com-
peting mortality and time to benefit, 
individuals with shorter life expectancy, ad-
vanced diabetes complications, life-limiting 
comorbid illnesses, frailty, or substantial 
cognitive or functional impairments will 
have less benefit from glucose lowering 
and should have less stringent glycemic 
goals (72). These individuals may not only 
not derive benefit from intensive glucose 
lowering but are also more likely to experi-
ence serious adverse effects of treatment, 
such as hypoglycemia (73). However, sig-
nificant hyperglycemia should also be 
avoided—even in the setting of complex 
health status—as elevated glucose levels 
(>180 mg/dL [>10 mmol/L]) increase 
risks of dehydration, weakness, infection, 
poor wound healing, and hyperglycemic 
crises (74). Glycemic goals should, at a 
minimum, avoid these consequences. Fac-
tors to consider for individualizing glycemic 
goals are outlined in Fig. 6.1 and Fig. 13.1. 
Clinicians should also consider the bal-
ance of risks and benefits of an individ-
ual’s diabetes medications, including 
disease-specific benefits (such as re-
ducing symptomatic heart failure or 
stabilizing chronic kidney disease) and 
burdens such as hypoglycemia risk, tol-
erability, difficulties of administration, 
inadequate support system, and finan-
cial cost. In addition, attention to oral 
health, vision and hearing loss, foot care, 
fall prevention, and early detection of de-
pression will improve quality of life.
While Table 13.2 provides overall guid-
ance for identifying individuals with com-
plex and very complex health needs, there 
is no global consensus on the optimal clas-
sification strategy. Empiric research on the 
classification of older adults with diabetes 
based on comorbid illness has suggested 
three broad classes of individuals: a 
healthy, a geriatric, and a cardiovascular 
class (14,69,75). The geriatric class has 
the highest prevalence of obesity, hyper-
tension, arthritis, and incontinence, while 
the cardiovascular class has the highest 
prevalence of myocardial infarctions, heart 
failure, and stroke. Compared with the 
healthy class, the cardiovascular class 
has the highest risk of frailty and subse-
quent mortality. Additional research is 
needed to develop a reproducible classifi-
cation scheme to distinguish the natural 
history of disease as well as differential 
response to glucose management and 
specific glucose-lowering agents (76).
Older Adults at the End of Life
For people with diabetes receiving pallia-
tive care and end-of-life care, the focus 
should be to avoid hypoglycemia and 
symptomatic hyperglycemia while reduc-
ing the burdens of glycemic management. 
Thus, as organ failure develops, the treat-
ment plan should be deintensified. At the 
end of life, most agents for type 2 diabe-
tes may be removed (77). There is, how-
ever, no consensus for the end-of-life 
management of type 1 diabetes (78). 
Consultation with a geriatric or palliative 
care specialist might be warranted to as-
sist with complex medical and functional 
issues as well as advance care planning. 
See END-OF-LIFE CARE, below, for additional 
information.
Beyond Glycemic Management
Although minimizing hyperglycemia may 
be important in older individuals with 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S283 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 13.2—Framework for considering treatment goals for glycemia, blood pressure, and dyslipidemia in older adults with diabetes
Characteristics and 
health status of person 
with diabetes
Rationale
Reasonable A1C goal*
Reasonable CGM goals
Fasting or 
preprandial glucose
Bedtime  
glucose
Blood pressure
Lipids
Healthy (few coexisting 
chronic illnesses, 
intact cognitive and 
functional status)
Longer remaining life 
expectancy
<7.0–7.5%  
(<53–58 mmol/mol)
TIR 70–180 mg/dL 
(3.9–10.0 mmol) of 
≥70%, and TBR ≤70 
mg/dL (≤3.9 mmol/L) 
of ≤4%
80–130 mg/dL 
(4.4–7.2 mmol/L)
80–180 mg/dL 
(4.4–10.0 
mmol/L)
<130/80 mmHg
Statin, unless 
contraindicated 
or not tolerated
Complex/intermediate 
(multiple coexisting 
chronic illnesses† or 
two or more ADL 
impairments or mild 
to moderate cognitive 
impairment)
Variable life expectancy. 
Individualize goals, 
considering: 
• Severity of 
comorbidities 
• Cognitive and functional 
limitations 
• Frailty 
• Risk-to-benefit ratio of 
diabetes medications 
• Individual preference 
<8.0% (<64 mmol/mol)
TIR 70–180 mg/dL 
(3.9–10.0 mmol) of 
≥50% and TBR <70 
mg/dL (<3.9 mmol/L) 
of <1%
90–150 mg/dL 
(5.0–8.3 mmol/L)
100–180 mg/dL 
(5.6–10.0 
mmol/L)
<130/80 mmHg
Statin, unless 
contraindicated 
or not tolerated
Very complex/poor 
health (PALTC or  
end-stage chronic 
illnesses‡ or 
moderate to severe 
cognitive impairment 
or two or more ADL 
impairments)
Limited remaining life 
expectancy makes 
benefit minimal
Avoid reliance on A1C; 
glucose management 
decisions should be 
based on avoiding 
hypoglycemia and 
symptomatic 
hyperglycemia
-
100–180 mg/dL 
(5.6–10.0 mmol/L)
110–200 mg/dL 
(6.1–11.1 
mmol/L)
<140/90 mmHg
Consider likelihood 
of benefit with 
statin
This table represents a consensus framework for considering treatment goals for glycemia, blood pressure, and dyslipidemia in older adults with diabetes. The characteristic categories are general con-
cepts. Not every individual will clearly fall into a particular category. Consideration of individual and care partner preferences, care partner engagement, abilities, and resources is an important aspect 
of treatment individualization. Additionally, an individual’s health status and preferences may change over time. ADL, activities of daily living; CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; PALTC, post-acute 
and long-term care; TBR, time below range; TIR, time in range. *A lower A1C goal may be set for an individual if achievable without recurrent or severe hypoglycemia or undue treatment burden.
†Coexisting chronic illnesses are conditions serious enough to require medications or lifestyle management and may include arthritis, cancer, heart failure, depression, emphysema, falls, hypertension, 
incontinence, stage 3 or worse chronic kidney disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke. “Multiple” means at least three, but many individuals may have five or more (193). ‡The presence of a single 
end-stage chronic illness, such as stage 3–4 heart failure or oxygen-dependent lung disease, chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis, or uncontrolled metastatic cancer, may cause significant symptoms 
or impairment of functional status and significantly reduce life expectancy. Adapted from Kirkman et al. (5).
S284 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

diabetes, greater reductions in morbidity 
and mortality are likely to result from a 
clinical focus on comprehensive cardio-
vascular risk factor modification. There is 
strong evidence from clinical trials of the 
value of treating hypertension in older 
adults (79–81), with treatment of hyper-
tension to individualized blood pressure 
goals indicated in most. There is less evi-
dence for lipid-lowering therapy and aspi-
rin therapy, although the benefits of these 
interventions for primary and secondary 
prevention are likely to apply to older 
adults whose life expectancies equal or ex-
ceed the time frames of the clinical trials 
(82). In the case of statins, the follow-up 
time of clinical trials ranged from 2 to 6 years. 
While the time frame of trials can be used to 
inform treatment decisions, a more specific 
concept is the time to benefit for a therapy, 
which, for statins, is 2.5 years (83).
LIFESTYLE MANAGEMENT
Recommendations
13.11a Recommend healthful eating 
with adequate protein intake (at least 
0.8 g/kg body weight/day) for older 
adults with diabetes to maintain and 
potentially higher, individualized amounts 
to regain lean body mass and func-
tion. B
13.11b Recommend regular physical 
activity, including aerobic activity, 
weight-bearing exercise, and resis-
tance training as tolerated in those 
who can safely engage in such activ-
ities, particularly to maintain lean 
body mass, especially in those pur-
suing weight loss. B
13.12 For older adults with type 2 dia-
betes, overweight or obesity, and the 
capacity to exercise safely, an intensive 
lifestyle intervention focused on die-
tary changes, physical activity, and 
weight loss (e.g., 5–7%) should be 
considered for its benefits on quality 
of life, mobility and physical func-
tioning, and cardiometabolic risk. A
Lifestyle management in older adults 
should be tailored to frailty status. Diabe-
tes in the aging population is associated 
with reduced muscle strength, poor mus-
cle quality, and accelerated loss of muscle 
mass, which may result in sarcopenia or 
dynapenia (84) and/or osteopenia (85). 
Diabetes is also recognized as an inde-
pendent risk factor for frailty. Frailty is 
characterized by a decline in physical per-
formance and an increased risk of nega-
tive health outcomes due to physiological 
vulnerability and functional or psychoso-
cial stressors. Inadequate nutritional 
intake, particularly inadequate protein 
intake, can increase the risk of sarcopenia 
and frailty in older adults. There is no 
current evidence showing that adjusting 
protein intake beyond the general rec-
ommendations (0.8–1.5 g/kg body 
weight/day or 15–20% of calories) im-
proves glycemic management or cardio-
vascular outcomes in individuals with 
diabetes (86,87). Nevertheless, individu-
alized protein goals may be beneficial, as 
some research suggests that moderately 
higher protein intake (20–30%) can sup-
port diabetes management by enhancing 
satiety (88). In populations with sarco-
penia, interventions combining protein 
supplementation with resistance exercise 
have resulted in increases in muscle mass 
and muscle strength (89). Special atten-
tion should be paid to malnutrition or the 
risk of malnutrition in older adults with di-
abetes given its association with sarcope-
nia (90,91). Malnutrition is also associated 
with decreases in activities of daily liv-
ing, grip strength, physical performance 
of lower limbs, cognition, and quality of 
life (92–94). See section 5, “Facilitating 
Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being 
to Improve Health Outcomes,” for a de-
scription of malnutrition and screening 
recommendations. Management of malnu-
trition, sarcopenia, and frailty in diabetes 
includes optimal nutrition with adequate 
protein intake combined with a physical 
activity program that includes aerobic, 
weight-bearing, and resistance training. 
The benefits of a structured physical activity 
program (as in the Lifestyle Interventions 
and Independence for Elders [LIFE] study) 
in frail older adults include reducing sed-
entary time, preventing mobility disabil-
ity, and reducing frailty (95). The goal of 
these programs is not weight loss but 
enhanced functional status. For nonfrail 
older adults with type 2 diabetes and over-
weight or obesity, an intensive lifestyle in-
tervention designed to reduce weight is 
beneficial across multiple outcomes. The 
Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) 
trial is described in section 8, “Obesity and 
Weight Management for the Prevention 
and Treatment of Diabetes.” Look AHEAD 
specifically excluded individuals with a low 
functional status. It enrolled people 
between 45 and 74 years of age and 
required that they be able to perform a 
maximal exercise test (96,97). Although the 
Look AHEAD trial did not achieve its pri-
mary outcome of reducing cardiovascular 
events, the intensive lifestyle intervention 
produced multiple clinical benefits, includ-
ing weight loss, improved physical fitness, 
increased HDL cholesterol, lowered sys-
tolic blood pressure, reduced A1C lev-
els, reduced waist circumference, and 
reduced need for medications (98). Sub-
group analyses found improved cardiovas-
cular outcomes among participants who 
lost at least 10% of baseline body weight 
in the first year (99). Risk factor man-
agement improved with reduced use 
of antihypertensive medications, sta-
tins, and insulin (100). Age-stratified 
analyses showed that older adults in 
the trial (aged 60–70 years) experienced 
benefits similar to those seen for youn-
ger participants (101,102). The lifestyle 
intervention also produced benefits on 
aging-relevant outcomes, including re-
ductions in multimorbidity, improved 
physical function, and enhanced qual-
ity of life (103–106).
PHARMACOLOGIC THERAPY
Recommendations
13.13 Select medications with low 
risk of hypoglycemia in older adults 
with type 2 diabetes, specifically for 
those with hypoglycemia risk factors. B
13.14a Deintensify hypoglycemia- 
causing medications (e.g., insulin, sulfo-
nylureas, or meglitinides) or switch to a 
medication class with low hypoglycemia 
risk for individuals who are at high risk 
for hypoglycemia, using individualized 
glycemic goals. B
13.14b In older adults with diabetes, 
deintensify diabetes medications for 
individuals for whom the harms and/or 
burdens of treatment may be greater 
than the benefits, within individualized 
glycemic goals. E
13.14c Simplify complex treatment 
plans (especially insulin) to reduce the 
risk of hypoglycemia and polypharmacy 
and to decrease treatment burden. B
13.14d In older adults with type 2 
diabetes and established or high risk 
of atherosclerotic cardiovascular dis-
ease, heart failure, and/or chronic 
kidney disease, the treatment plan 
should include agents that reduce car-
diovascular and kidney disease risk, ir-
respective of glycemia. A
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S285 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

13.15 Consider costs of care and 
coverage when developing treatment 
plans to reduce risk of cost-related 
barriers to taking medication and per
forming self-management behaviors. B
-
Special care is required in prescribing 
and monitoring pharmacologic thera-
pies in older adults, who are at high risk 
of polypharmacy and its adverse se-
quelae, often have nuanced considera-
tions for choice of specific medication 
classes, and may have cognitive and/or 
functional impairments that affect the 
capacity for safe self-management. Ther-
apeutic choices should also take into 
consideration whether older adults with 
diabetes live independently, have an en-
gaged and available caregiver, or live in a 
skilled nursing facility, assisted living fa-
cility, or group home (and what level of 
assistance for medication taking and 
glucose monitoring is available in these 
facilities). It is important to match com-
plexity of the treatment plan to the 
self-management ability of older adults 
with diabetes and their available social 
and medical support. Cost may be an 
especially important consideration, as 
older adults are often treated with multi-
ple medications and live on fixed incomes. 
Accordingly, the costs of care and insur-
ance coverage rules should be considered 
when developing treatment plans to re-
duce the risk of cost-related barriers to 
use (107,108). See Fig. 9.4 for general rec-
ommendations regarding glucose-lowering 
treatment for adults with type 2 diabetes, 
Table 9.2 for person-and drug-specific fac-
tors to consider when selecting glucose-low-
ering agents, and Table 9.3 and Table 9.4 
for median monthly cost in the U.S. of 
noninsulin glucose-lowering agents and in-
sulin, respectively.
Intensive glycemic management in older 
adults, particularly those with complex 
health status, with medication plans that 
increase the risk of hypoglycemia through 
use of insulin and/or sulfonylureas has 
been identified as overtreatment, is com-
mon in clinical practice (109–113), and 
may increase the risk of mortality (42). 
High treatment burden is another indica-
tor of potential overtreatment. Deintensi-
fication of glucose-lowering plans can be 
achieved by either lowering the dose or dis-
continuing some medications, as long as 
individualized glycemic goals are maintained 
(114,115). Multiple studies evaluating 
deintensification protocols in diabetes and 
hypertension have shown that deintensifi-
cation is safe and possibly beneficial for 
older adults (114). Using the 4S pathway 
(41), Fig. 13.2 offers a road map for assess-
ing treatment difficulty; reevaluating glyce-
mic goals through shared decision-making; 
deintensifying, simplifying, or modifying 
treatments; and reassessing treatment 
engagement and burdens.
Metformin
Metformin is a good treatment option for 
glucose lowering in older adults with type 2 
diabetes due to its low risk for hypogly-
cemia and simple administration profile, 
but prescription guidelines must be fol-
lowed carefully and regularly reassessed. 
Metformin may be used safely in individu-
als with an estimated glomerular filtration 
rate (eGFR) ≥30 mL/min/1.73 m2 (116), 
although lower doses should be used in 
those with eGFR 30–45 mL/min/1.73 m2. 
eGFR should be monitored every 3–6 
months in those at risk for decline in kid-
ney function. However, metformin is 
contraindicated in those with advanced 
kidney disease and should be used with 
caution in those with hypoperfusion, hyp-
oxemia, and impaired hepatic function 
due to potential risk of lactic acidosis. 
Metformin may be temporarily discontin-
ued before procedures including imaging 
studies using iodinated contrast, during 
hospitalizations, and when acute illness 
may compromise kidney or liver func-
tion. Additionally, metformin can cause 
gastrointestinal side effects (this risk can 
be minimized through slow uptitration 
at initiation) and a reduction in appetite 
that can be problematic for some older 
adults. Extended-release formulation may 
be used as an alternative to immediate- 
release formulation in older adults 
experiencing difficulties in maintaining med-
ication plans or experiencing gastrointestinal 
effects. For those taking metformin long 
term (>4 years), vitamin B12 levels should 
be monitored annually (117).
Pioglitazone
Pioglitazone has low risk for hypoglycemia 
but should be used cautiously and in select 
individuals due to risks for heart failure, 
fluid retention, weight gain, osteoporosis, 
and/or macular edema (118,119). Adverse 
effect risks are reduced with lower doses 
of pioglitazone and when it is used as part 
of combination therapy. There may also be 
the beneficial effect of stroke reduction 
(120).
Insulin Secretagogues
Sulfonylureas are associated with hypo-
glycemia, bone loss (121), and fracture 
risk (122) and should be used with cau-
tion. Similarly, meglitinides (repaglinide 
and nateglinide) increase the risk of hypo-
glycemia and fracture risk (123,124). If 
used, sulfonylureas with a shorter dura-
tion of action, such as glipizide, may be 
preferred, although a recent analysis found 
that the risk of major adverse cardiovascu-
lar events was highest with glipizide (125). 
Glyburide is a longer-acting sulfonylurea 
with multiple active metabolites and should 
be avoided in older adults due to its hypo-
glycemia risk (126). Many antimicrobials 
(most commonly fluroquinolones and sul-
famethoxazole-trimethoprim) interact with 
sulfonylureas to increase the effective sul-
fonylurea dose, which may precipitate hypo-
glycemia (127–129). Sulfonylureas should 
be reduced or temporarily discontinued 
in these circumstances. Consistent and 
adequate eating patterns are essential to 
reducing hypoglycemia risk, and insulin 
secretagogues may need to be dose- 
reduced or held in the setting of illness, 
fasting, or when eating is otherwise im-
paired. Older adults treated with insulin sec-
retagogues should be routinely screened for 
hypoglycemia, hypoglycemia awareness 
should be assessed, and prevention and 
treatment strategies should be reinforced.
DPP-4 Inhibitors
Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors 
have few side effects and minimal risk of 
hypoglycemia, but their cost may be a 
barrier to some older adults. DPP-4 inhibi-
tors are relatively weak glucose-lowering 
agents and do not reduce cardiovascular 
or kidney disease risks like GLP-1 RAs and 
SGLT2 inhibitors (130). In general, these 
medications may be useful in older adults 
with mild hyperglycemia or with high risk 
of hypoglycemia when a GLP-1 RA or 
a dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic 
polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 RA is not 
tolerated. DPP-4 inhibitors may be used 
as an alternative to metformin in older 
adults with low eGFR; linagliptin does not 
require renal dose adjustment.
GLP-1–Based Therapies
GLP-1 RAs and the GIP/GLP-1 RA tirzepa-
tide are highly effective glucose-lowering 
S286 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

medications with low risk for hypoglycemia 
and can be used in the setting of reduced 
eGFR, including during dialysis. GLP-1 RAs 
have demonstrated additional cardiovascular 
benefits among people with diabetes and 
established atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease (ASCVD) and those at higher 
ASCVD risk, with chronic kidney disease, 
and with symptomatic heart failure with 
preserved ejection fraction in the setting 
of obesity. See section 9, “Pharmacologic 
Approaches to Glycemic Treatment,” sec-
tion 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and Risk 
Management,” and section 11, “Chronic 
Kidney Disease and Risk Management,” 
for more extensive discussion. In a sys-
tematic review and meta-analysis of 
GLP-1 RA trials, these agents have been 
found to reduce major adverse cardiovas-
cular events, cardiovascular deaths, stroke, 
and myocardial infarction to the same de-
gree for people over and under 65 years of 
age (131). Weight loss achieved with use of 
GLP-1 RAs and the GIP/GLP-1 RA is also 
beneficial for obstructive sleep apnea (132), 
knee osteoarthritis (133), and metabolic 
dysfunction–associated steatohepatitis 
(MASH) (134–136). While the evidence for 
this class of agents for older adults contin-
ues to grow, there are a number of 
practical issues that should be considered 
specifically for older people. These drugs 
are injectable agents (with the exception 
of oral semaglutide) (137), which require 
visual, motor, and cognitive skills for ap-
propriate administration, although most 
have a weekly dosing schedule. GLP-1 
RAs may also be associated with nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhea, and/or constipation, 
and doses should be titrated slowly. GLP-1 
RAs are therefore not preferred in older 
adults experiencing unexplained weight 
loss or undernutrition or with problematic 
constipation, significant gastroparesis, 
recurrent ileus, or bowel obstruction. 
Step 
Three
Step 
One
Step 
Two
Step 
Four
Deintensify, simplify, or modify the 
diabetes treatment plan to optimize 
safety, minimize polypharmacy, and 
target disease-specific benefits.
Investigate red flags, medication 
adverse effects, and major 
changes in health or function.
Reevaluate glycemic 
goals through shared 
decision-making. Involve 
care partners. 
 and burdens. Consider 2-week 
 
 continuous glucose monitoring
 to evaluate glycemic patterns.  
Medical event
Life-altering event
Change in physical, 
cognitive, or mental  
health status
Medication red flags 
or adverse effects
Changes in medication
             taking-behaviors
Signs of unrecognized 
hypoglycemia
Symptoms of hyperglycemia
Assess for difficulty with current 
diabetes treatment plan in older adults 
Reassess treatment engagement 
Figure 13.2—Stepwise approach for assessing difficulties in the diabetes treatment plan; reevaluating glycemic goals through shared decision- 
making; deintensifying, simplifying, or modifying the treatment plan; and reassessing the safety and burdens of any interventions. Created using 
recommendations from Munshi et al. (41). 
diabetesjournals.org/care
Older Adults
S287 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Individuals should be monitored regu-
larly for dehydration and excessive 
weight loss, which may lead to signifi-
cant loss of muscle mass (sarcopenia) 
and bone density. The risk for sarcope-
nia can be mitigated with adequate pro-
tein intake and resistance or strength 
training (89).
SGLT2 Inhibitors
SGLT2 inhibitors are administered orally, 
which may be convenient for older adults 
with diabetes. In those with established 
ASCVD, these agents have shown car-
diovascular benefits (138). This class of 
agents has also been found to be benefi-
cial for people with heart failure and to 
slow the progression of chronic kidney 
disease. See section 9, “Pharmacologic 
Approaches to Glycemic Treatment,” sec-
tion 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and Risk 
Management,” and section 11, “Chronic 
Kidney Disease and Risk Management,” 
for a more extensive discussion regarding 
the indications for this class of agents. 
Stratified analyses of the trials of this 
drug class indicate that older adults have 
similar or greater benefits than younger 
people (139–141). SGLT2 inhibitors are 
generally well tolerated among older 
adults, although thoughtful selection is 
needed to avoid adverse effects in indi-
viduals at elevated risk (142). SGLT2 in-
hibitors may cause clinically significant 
volume depletion, for which older adults 
are at greater risk, and should be used 
cautiously in older adults who are frail or 
prone to orthostasis (143). SGLT2 inhibi-
tors cause a higher rate of genital my-
cotic infections, especially in women, 
and may need to be discontinued if this 
effect becomes burdensome (144). Their 
use may also be associated with a small 
increase in urinary tract infections; cau-
tion should be used in people with recur-
rent or severe urinary tract infections 
(144). Because SGLT2 inhibitors typically 
increase urine volume, symptoms of uri-
nary incontinence should be queried be-
fore and after SGLT2 inhibitor initiation 
(145,146). Euglycemic diabetic ketoaci-
dosis (DKA) is a rare but potentially serious 
phenomenon associated with treatment 
with SGLT2 inhibitors, especially in those 
with multimorbidity who reside in post- 
acute and long-term care (PALTC) settings, 
with infection being the most common 
trigger (145,147).
Insulin Therapy
The use of insulin therapy requires that 
individuals or their caregivers have good 
visual and motor skills and cognitive ability 
to manage insulin dosing and administra-
tion and to recognize and treat hypoglyce-
mia. Insulin doses, times of administration, 
and treatment plans should be tailored to 
meet individualized glycemic goals and to 
avoid hypoglycemia. Age alone does not 
limit the utility of technology, and older 
adults who are capable of using CGM devi-
ces or an automated insulin delivery sys-
tem should be encouraged to use them as 
long as they help to provide safe and effec-
tive glycemic management (see discussion 
above).
Once-daily basal insulin injection ther-
apy may be a reasonable option in many 
older adults, although noninsulin thera-
pies are preferred due to lower risk of hy-
poglycemia and other potential benefits 
as discussed above. When choosing basal 
insulin, the prescriber should take into ac-
count that long-acting insulin analogs have 
been associated with a lower risk of emer-
gency department visits and hospitaliza-
tions for hypoglycemia than NPH insulin in 
the Medicare population (148). Multiple 
daily injections of insulin may be too com-
plex for many older individuals with ad-
vanced diabetes complications, life-limiting 
coexisting chronic illnesses, cognitive or 
functional impairment, or limited func-
tional status or social support. If affordable, 
use of insulin pens should be preferred to 
syringes, mostly in older adults with func-
tional impairment.
Studies suggest that simplification of the 
insulin plan to match an individual’s self- 
management abilities and their available 
social and medical support is associated 
with reduced hypoglycemia and disease- 
related distress without worsening glyce-
mic outcomes (149–152). Figure 13.3 de-
picts an algorithm, and potential approach, 
that can be used to simplify the insulin ad-
ministration plan (151), and Table 13.3
provides examples of and rationale for sit-
uations where deintensification and/or 
insulin plan simplification may be appro-
priate in older adults.
Other Factors to Consider
The needs of older adults with diabetes 
and their care partners should be evaluated 
to construct a tailored care plan. Inade-
quate social support and reduced access 
to long-term services and support may 
reduce these individuals’ quality of life 
and increase the risk of functional depen-
dency (10). The living situation must be 
considered as it may affect diabetes man-
agement and support needs. Social and 
instrumental support networks (e.g., adult 
children and care partners) that provide in-
strumental or emotional support for older 
adults with diabetes should be included 
in diabetes management discussions and 
shared decision-making.
The need for ongoing support of older 
adults becomes even greater when tran-
sitions to PALTC become necessary. Un-
fortunately, these transitions can lead to 
discontinuity in goals of care, errors in 
dosing, and changes in nutrition and ac-
tivity (153). Older adults in assisted living 
facilities may not have support to admin-
ister their own medications, whereas 
those living in a nursing home for short- 
term rehabilitation or PALTC may rely on 
first-line care partners including nursing 
and care professionals with variable clini-
cal expertise. Those receiving palliative 
care (with or without hospice) may re-
quire an approach that emphasizes com-
fort and symptom management while 
deemphasizing strict metabolic and blood 
pressure management.
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR 
OLDER ADULTS WITH TYPE 1 
DIABETES
Due in part to the success of modern dia-
betes management, people with type 1 
diabetes are living longer, and the popula-
tion of people over 65 years with type 1 
diabetes is growing (154–156). Many of 
the recommendations in this section re-
garding comprehensive geriatric assess-
ment and personalization of goals and 
treatments are directly applicable to older 
adults with type 1 diabetes; however, this 
population has unique challenges and re-
quires distinct treatment considerations 
(157). Insulin is an essential life-preserving 
therapy for people with type 1 diabetes. 
To avoid DKA, older adults with type 1 dia-
betes need some form of basal insulin 
even when they are unable to ingest meals. 
Insulin may be delivered through injection, 
with an AID system, or with an insulin 
pump alone depending on individual pref-
erence, capability, and circumstances. 
CGM should be used in conjunction with 
any insulin delivery system. CGM is ap-
proved for use by Medicare and can play 
a critical role in improving A1C, reducing 
S288 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

glycemic variability, and reducing risk of hy-
poglycemia (49) (see section 7, “Diabetes 
Technology,” and section 9, “Pharmacologic 
Approaches to Glycemic Treatment”). In 
older people with type 1 diabetes, adminis-
tration of insulin may become more difficult 
as complications, cognitive impairment, and 
functional impairment arise. This increases 
the importance of care partners in the lives 
of these individuals. Older people with 
type 1 diabetes may require placement in 
PALTC settings (i.e., nursing homes and 
skilled nursing facilities), and unfortu-
nately staff in these settings continue to 
be less familiar with CGM devices, insulin 
pumps, or advanced insulin delivery de-
vices. Nevertheless, a feasibility study in 
PALTC facilities showed that CGM can be 
useful in older adults with diabetes, al-
though it requires substantial staff training 
(158). Additional studies of older adults 
with diabetes living in PALTC facilities us-
ing CGM revealed a high prevalence of hy-
poglycemia both in people using insulin 
and in those using sulfonylureas, thus 
showing that this population of older 
adults in PALTC facilities are at increased 
risk for hypoglycemia (159,160). Using 
CGM can provide useful and more prompt 
information on hypoglycemia as well as 
time spent in severe hyperglycemia (as 
noted in a study of 65 residents in 8 long- 
term facilities) in this population (161). Of 
note, a recent RCT in PALTC facilities 
showed that real-time CGM use for up to 
60 days was safe and effective in guiding 
insulin doses compared with BGM by point 
of care. There were no differences in TIR, 
time below range, or mean glucose levels 
(162). Some staff may be less knowledge-
able about the differences between type 1 
and type 2 diabetes. DKA may be mistaken 
for sepsis, end-organ failure, or other elec-
trolyte abnormalities. In these instances, 
the individual or their family may be more 
familiar with their current diabetes man-
agement plan than the staff or health care 
professionals. Education of relevant sup-
port staff and health care professionals in 
rehabilitation and PALTC settings regarding 
insulin dosing and use of pumps and CGM 
Simplification of complex insulin therapy in people with type 2 diabetes on insulin
Change timing from bedtime to morning
Titrate dose of basal insulin based on fasting 
glucose test results over 1 week
•
May change goal based on overall health 
and goals of care
•
Decrease dose by 50% and add noninsulin 
agent§
Titrate prandial insulin doses down as 
noninsulin agent doses are increased with aim 
to discontinue prandial insulin
•
Discontinue prandial insulin and add
noninsulin agent(s)§
Add noninsulin agents§:
• 
2 weeks, as tolerated
• 
tolerated, proceed to second-line agent depending on comorbidities or complications
Using Individual comorbidities (e.g., CKD, ASCVD, low body weight, and risk of 
dehydration) and drug characteristics to guide decision-making, as depicted in 
Fig. 9.4 and Table 9.2, select additional agent(s) as needed:
•
 Every 2 weeks, adjust insulin dose and/or add glucose-lowering medications 
based on glucose testing performed before lunch and before dinner
• 
on overall health and goals of care||
•
 If 50% of premeal values over 2 weeks are above goal, increase the dose or
add another agent
• 
of medication
If 50% of the fasting glucose values are over 
the goal:
•
Increase dose by ≥2 units
•
Decrease dose by ≥2 units
Individual on basal (long- or intermediate-acting)* and/or prandial (short- or rapid-acting)† insulins
Individual on premixed insulin‡
Basal insulin
Prandial insulin
Use 70% of total premixed insulin dose as 
basal only in the morning
Additional Tips
• 
 Do not use rapid- and short-acting insulin at bedtime
• 
 While adjusting prandial insulin, a simplified correction scale
may be used, for example: 
○
2 units of short- or rapid-acting insulin
○
4 units of short- or rapid-acting insulin
• 
 Stop correction scale when not needed daily
Optimize technology use and caregiver engagement
For premeal glucose >250 mg/dL (>13.9 mmol/L), give 
Fasting goal: 90–150 mg/dL (5.0–8.3 mmol/L)
If prandial insulin >10 units/dose:
If prandial insulin ≤10 units/dose:
If >2 fasting values/week are <80 mg/dL 
(<4.4 mmol/L):
If eGFR is ≥45 mL/min/1.73 m², start metformin 500 mg daily and increase dose every
If eGFR is <45 mL/min/1.73 m², individual is already taking metformin, or metformin is not 
Goal: 90–150 mg/dL (5.0–8.3 mmol/L) before meals; may change goal based
If >2 premeal values/week are <90 mg/dL (<5.0 mmol/L), decrease the dose 
For premeal glucose >350 mg/dL (>19.4 mmol/L), give
Figure 13.3—Algorithm to simplify insulin administration plans in older individuals. ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; CKD, chronic kidney 
disease; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtration rate. *Basal insulins: glargine U-100 and U-300, degludec, and human NPH. †Prandial insulins: short- 
acting (regular human insulin) or rapid-acting (lispro, aspart, and glulisine). ‡Premixed insulins: 70/30, 75/25, and 50/50 products. §Examples of noninsulin 
agents include metformin, sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors, dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists 
(GLP1-RAs), and dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 RAs. jjSee Table 13.2. Adapted with permission from Munshi et al. (151). 
diabetesjournals.org/care
Older Adults
S289 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 13.3—Considerations for treatment plan simplification and deintensification/deprescribing in older adults with 
diabetes
Characteristics and 
health status of person 
with diabetes
Reasonable glycemic goal
Rationale/considerations
When may medication 
plan simplification be 
required?
When may treatment 
deintensification be 
required?
Healthy (few chronic 
illnesses, intact 
cognitive and 
functional status)
A1C <7.0–7.5%  
(<53–58 mmol/mol)
• Healthy individuals 
can usually perform 
complex tasks for 
glycemic 
management 
• During acute illness, 
individuals may be 
at risk for medica-
tion administration 
errors 
• Severe or recurrent 
hypoglycemia on in-
sulin regardless of 
A1C 
• Wide glucose 
excursions 
• Cognitive or func-
tional decline follow-
ing acute illness 
• Severe or recurrent 
hypoglycemia on in-
sulin or sulfonylur-
eas, regardless of 
A1C 
• Wide glucose 
excursions 
• Polypharmacy 
Complex/intermediate 
(multiple chronic 
illnesses or ≥2 ADL 
impairments or mild 
to moderate cognitive 
impairment)
A1C <8.0%  
(<64 mmol/mol)
• Comorbidities may 
affect self-manage-
ment abilities and 
capacity to avoid 
hypoglycemia 
• Severe or recurrent 
hypoglycemia on in-
sulin therapy, re-
gardless of A1C 
• Difficulty managing 
insulin plan 
• Significant change in 
social circumstances, 
(e.g., loss of care 
partner or change in 
living situation or 
finances) 
• Severe or recurrent 
hypoglycemia on in-
sulin or sulfonylur-
eas, regardless of 
A1C 
• Wide glucose 
excursions 
• Polypharmacy 
Community-dwelling 
individuals receiving 
short-term care in a 
skilled nursing facility
Avoid reliance on A1C; 
glucose goal  
100–200 mg/dL 
(5.6–11.1 mmol/L)
• Glycemic manage-
ment is important 
for recovery, wound 
healing, and avoid-
ance of infections 
• Recovery from acute 
illness may impair 
cognitive function 
• More support may 
be needed on tran-
sition to home 
• Consider reinstating 
prehospitalization 
treatment if it in-
creased in complex-
ity during 
hospitalization 
• Weight loss, an-
orexia, short-term 
cognitive decline, 
and/or loss of physi-
cal functioning 
Very complex/poor 
health (PALTC or end- 
stage chronic illnesses 
or moderate to 
severe cognitive 
impairment or ≥2 
ADL impairments)
Avoid reliance on A1C and 
avoid hypoglycemia  
and symptomatic 
hyperglycemia
• No benefits of tight 
glycemic goals in 
this population 
• Hypoglycemia 
should be avoided 
• Most important out-
comes are mainte-
nance of cognitive 
and functional 
status 
• The individual would 
like to decrease the 
number of injections 
and finger-stick 
blood glucose 
monitoring 
• The individual has 
an inconsistent  
eating pattern 
• Cognitive dysfunc-
tion, depression, an-
orexia, or inconsis-
tent eating pattern 
while taking sulfony-
lureas or 
meglitinides 
• Taking any diabetes 
medications without 
clear benefits 
At the end of life
Avoid hypoglycemia  
and symptomatic 
hyperglycemia
• Goal is to provide 
comfort and avoid 
tasks or interven-
tions that cause 
pain or discomfort 
• Care partners are 
important in provid-
ing medical care and 
maintaining quality 
of life 
• Pain or discomfort 
caused by treatment 
(e.g., injections or 
finger sticks) 
• Excessive stress of 
care partners due to 
treatment 
complexity 
• Taking any diabetes 
medications without 
clear benefits in im-
proving symptoms 
and/or comfort 
Treatment plan simplification refers to changing strategy to decrease the complexity of a medication plan (e.g., fewer administration times 
and fewer blood glucose checks) and decreasing the need for calculations (such as sliding-scale insulin calculations or insulin-carbohydrate ra-
tio calculations). Deintensification/deprescribing refers to decreasing the dose or frequency of administration of a treatment or discontinuing 
a treatment altogether. ADL, activities of daily living; PALTC, post-acute and long-term care. Created using information from Munshi et al. 
2016 (151) and 2017 (194).
S290 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

is recommended as part of general diabe-
tes education (see Recommendations 13.16 
and 13.17).
TREATMENT IN POST-ACUTE AND 
LONG-TERM CARE SETTINGS
Recommendations
13.16 Recommend diabetes education/ 
training (including that for CGM devi-
ces, insulin pumps, and advanced in-
sulin delivery systems) for the staff of 
post-acute and long-term care settings 
to improve the management of older 
adults with diabetes. E
13.17 People with diabetes residing 
in post-acute and long-term care set-
tings need careful assessment of mo-
bility, mentation, medications, and 
management preferences to establish 
individualized glycemic goals and to 
make appropriate choices of glucose- 
lowering agents and devices (includ-
ing CGM devices, insulin pumps, and 
advanced insulin delivery systems) 
based on their clinical and functional 
status. E
Management of diabetes in the PALTC 
setting has multiple unique and nuanced 
considerations. Individualization of health 
care is important for all people with dia-
betes; however, practical guidance for 
feasible and sustainable care delivery is 
needed for health care professionals, 
PALTC staff, and care partners (163,164). 
Training should include diabetes detection, 
identification of complications, glycemic 
monitoring, determination of individual-
ized glycemic goals, medication and nu-
tritional considerations, oral care and 
regular foot assessment, wound and in-
fection concerns, and institutional quality 
assessment. PALTC facilities should de-
velop their own policies and procedures 
for prevention, recognition, and manage-
ment of hypoglycemia and symptomatic 
hyperglycemia. For more information, see 
the ADA position statement “Management 
of Diabetes in Long-term Care and Skilled 
Nursing Facilities” and diabetes manage-
ment guidelines for the PALTC setting 
(153,163,164). With the increased longev-
ity of populations, the care of people with 
diabetes and its complications in PALTC is 
an area that warrants greater study.
Nutritional Considerations
An older adult residing in a PALTC facility 
may have irregular and unpredictable meal 
consumption, undernutrition, diminished 
appetite, and impaired swallowing. Fur-
thermore, therapeutic nutrition plans or 
modified food consistencies may inadver-
tently lead to decreased food intake and 
contribute to unintentional weight loss and 
undernutrition. Meals tailored to a person’s 
culture, preferences, and personal goals 
may increase quality of life, satisfaction 
with meals, and nutrition status (165). It 
may be helpful to give insulin immediately 
after meals to ensure that the dose is ap-
propriate for the amount of carbohydrate 
the individual consumed in the meal. How-
ever, postprandial insulin administration 
needs to be balanced against the potential 
for hypoglycemia, ensuring that prandial in-
sulin is rapid-acting (not short-acting) and 
is given as soon as possible after eating. It 
is similarly important that insulin not be 
given too early before meals and that pre-
prandial glucose monitoring, insulin ad-
ministration, and eating occur as close to 
each other as possible.
Hypoglycemia
Older adults with diabetes in PALTC are es-
pecially vulnerable to hypoglycemia. They 
have a disproportionately high number of 
health conditions that can increase hypo-
glycemia risk: impaired cognitive and renal 
function, slowed hormonal regulation and 
counter-regulation, suboptimal hydration, 
variable appetite and nutritional intake, re-
quirement for feeding assistance, polyphar-
macy, and slowed intestinal absorption 
(166). Oral agents may achieve glycemic 
outcomes similar to those for basal insulin 
in PALTC residents with type 2 diabetes 
(109,167). CGM may be a useful approach 
to monitoring for and preventing hypogly-
cemia among individuals treated with insu-
lin in PALTC (160,161,168).
Another consideration for the PALTC 
setting is that unlike in the hospital set-
ting, health care professionals are not 
required to evaluate individuals daily. 
According to federal guidelines, at a 
minimum, assessments should be done 
at least every 30 days for the first 90 
days after admission and then at least 
once every 60 days and as clinically indi-
cated for acute medical problems or wors-
ening of existing conditions. Although in 
practice some individuals may be seen 
more frequently, individuals may have 
poorly managed glucose levels or wide 
excursions without the practitioner being 
notified. Health care professionals may 
adjust treatment plans by telephone, fax, 
or in person directly at the PALTC facili-
ties, provided they are given timely no-
tification of blood glucose management 
issues from a standardized alert system. 
It is important for individuals with sig-
nificant and/or persistent dysglycemia 
to be reassessed and their treatment mod-
ified without delay to prevent recur-
rence of hypoglycemia and significant 
hyperglycemia.
The following alert strategy could be 
considered: 
1. Call a health care professional imme-
diately in cases of low blood glucose 
levels (<70 mg/dL [<3.9 mmol/L]). 
However, treatment of hypoglycemia 
should not be delayed.
2. Call as soon as possible when 
a. glucose values are 70–100 mg/dL 
(3.9–5.6 mmol/L) (treatment plan 
may need to be adjusted),
b. two or more blood glucose val-
ues >250 mg/dL (>13.9 mmol/L) 
are observed within a 24-h pe-
riod accompanied by a significant 
change in clinical status,
c. glucose values are consistently >250 
mg/dL (>13.9 mmol/L) within a 
24-h period,
d. glucose values are consistently 
>300 mg/dL (>16.7 mmol/L) over 
2 consecutive days,
e. any reading is too high for the glu-
cose monitoring device, or
f. the individual is sick, with symp-
tomatic hyperglycemia, vomiting, 
fever, lethargy, or poor oral intake.
END-OF-LIFE CARE
Recommendations
13.18 When palliative care is needed 
in older adults with diabetes, health 
care professionals should discuss goals 
and intensity of care with people with 
diabetes and their care partners. Strict 
glucose, blood pressure, and lipid 
management are not necessary; con-
sider deintensification or simplification 
of medication plans and prioritize 
symptom management. E
13.19 Prioritize the overall comfort, 
prevention of distressing symptoms, 
and preservation of quality of life and 
dignity as primary goals for diabetes 
management at the end of life. C
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S291 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Management of diabetes in the setting 
of palliative medicine or hospice care at 
the end of life is a unique situation. The 
goal of palliative medicine is to promote 
comfort, symptom management and 
prevention (pain, hypoglycemia, hyper-
glycemia, and dehydration), and preser-
vation of dignity and quality of life in 
the setting of limited life expectancy 
(169,170).
In the setting of palliative care, health 
care professionals should initiate con-
versations with people with diabetes 
and their care partners regarding the 
goals and intensity of diabetes care; strict 
glucose and blood pressure management 
may not be consistent with achieving 
comfort and quality of life. Avoidance of 
severe hypertension and hyperglycemia 
aligns with the goals of palliative care. In 
a multicenter trial, withdrawal of statins 
among people with diabetes in palliative 
care was found to improve quality of life 
(171–173). The evidence for the safety 
and efficacy of deintensification proto-
cols in older adults is growing for both 
glucose and blood pressure management 
(113,174) and is clearly relevant for palli-
ative care. An individual has the right to 
refuse testing and treatment, whereas 
health care professionals may consider 
withdrawing treatment and limiting diag-
nostic testing, including a reduction in 
the frequency of blood glucose monitor-
ing (175,176). CGM could be considered 
when frequent blood glucose monitoring is 
burdensome but monitoring for hypoglyce-
mia and hyperglycemia is needed. Glycemic 
goals should aim to prevent hypoglycemia 
(blood glucose <70 mg/dL) and severe hy-
perglycemia (blood glucose >250 mg/dL 
when symptom burden increases), al-
though individuals vary in their response 
(177). Treatment interventions need to 
be mindful of quality of life. Careful 
monitoring of oral intake is warranted. 
The clinical decision-making process may 
need to involve the individual, family, 
and care partners, leading to a care plan 
that is safe, effective, and goal-concor-
dant (178). Pharmacologic therapy for 
type 2 diabetes may include oral agents 
with low likelihood of causing hypoglyce-
mia as first line, followed by a simplified 
insulin plan such as basal insulin. Agents 
that can cause gastrointestinal and other 
adverse symptoms may not be good 
choices in this setting. As symptoms 
progress, some agents may be slowly ta-
pered and discontinued.
Different categories have been pro-
posed for diabetes management in those 
at the end of life (77). 
1. A stable individual: Continue with the 
person’s previous medication plan, 
with a focus on 1) the prevention of 
hypoglycemia and 2) the manage-
ment of hyperglycemia using blood 
glucose monitoring, keeping levels be-
low the renal threshold of glucose, 
and hyperglycemia-mediated dehy-
dration. There is no role for A1C 
monitoring.
2. An individual with organ failure: Pre-
venting hypoglycemia is of greatest 
significance. Dehydration must be pre-
vented and treated. In people with 
type 1 diabetes, insulin administration 
may be reduced as the oral intake of 
food decreases but should not be 
stopped. For those with type 2 diabe-
tes, agents that may cause hypoglyce-
mia should be reduced in dose. The 
main goal is to avoid hypoglycemia, al-
lowing for glucose values in the upper 
level of the desired goal range.
3. A dying individual: For people with 
type 2 diabetes, the discontinuation 
of all medications may be a reason-
able approach, as these individuals 
are unlikely to have any oral intake. 
In people with type 1 diabetes, there 
is no consensus, but a small amount 
of basal insulin may maintain glucose 
levels and prevent acute hyperglycemic 
complications and symptom burden.
Diabetes health care professionals 
are well positioned to support people 
with diabetes in advance care planning. 
Health care professionals can assist peo-
ple with diabetes in clarifying and docu-
menting their values, preferences, and 
goals for care in an advanced care plan 
(172). Advance care plans are guides to 
help health care professionals and care 
partners make difficult treatment deci-
sions when the person with diabetes is 
no longer able to make decisions for 
themselves. Research shows that peo-
ple with diabetes want to discuss end- 
of-life care plans with their health care 
professional (179). Two validated tools 
exist to support health care professio-
nals in this process: the Supportive and 
Palliative Care Indicators Tool (180) and 
the Gold Standards Framework Proactive 
Identification Guidance (181).
In conclusion, the management of dia-
betes in older adults at the end of life 
necessitates a person-centered approach 
that prioritizes attainment of individual-
ized treatment goals, comfort, symptom 
management, quality of life, and the 
preservation of dignity.
References
1. Laiteerapong N, Huang ES. Diabetes in older 
adults. In Diabetes in America, 3rd ed. Cowie CC, 
Casagrande SS, Menke A, et al., Eds. National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney 
Diseases, 2018. Accessed 9 October 2025. 
Available from https://www.niddk.nih.gov/about- 
niddk/strategic-plans-reports/diabetes-in-america- 
3rd-edition
2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2024. Accessed 
28 August 2025. Available from https://www.cdc 
.gov/diabetes/php/data-research/index.html
3. Lin L, Chen P, Zhang Y, et al. Burden of type 2 
diabetes mellitus and risk factor attribution 
among older adults: a global, regional, and national 
analysis from 1990 to 2021, with projections up to 
2040. Diabetes Obes Metab 2025;27:4330–4343
4. Tomic D, Harding JL, Jenkins AJ, Shaw JE, 
Magliano DJ. The epidemiology of type 1 diabetes 
mellitus in older adults. Nat Rev Endocrinol 2025; 
21:92–104
5. Kirkman MS, Briscoe VJ, Clark N, et al. 
Diabetes in older adults. Diabetes Care 2012;35: 
2650–2664
6. Young-Hyman D, de Groot M, Hill-Briggs F, 
Gonzalez JS, Hood K, Peyrot M. Psychosocial care 
for people with diabetes: a position statement of 
the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 
2016;39:2126–2140
7. Institute of Medicine of the National Academies. 
Cognitive aging: progress in understanding and 
opportunities for action. Accessed 28 August 2025. 
Available from https://nationalacademies.org/hmd/ 
Reports/2015/Cognitive-Aging.aspx
8. Pilla SJ, Rooney MR, McCoy RG. Disability 
and diabetes in adults. In Diabetes in America. 
Lawrence JM, Casagrande SS, Herman WH, 
Wexler DJ, Cefalu WT, Eds. National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, 
2023
9. Sudore RL, Karter AJ, Huang ES, et al. 
Symptom burden of adults with type 2 diabetes 
across the disease course: diabetes & aging study. 
J Gen Intern Med 2012;27:1674–1681
10. Laiteerapong N, Karter AJ, Liu JY, et al. 
Correlates of quality of life in older adults with 
diabetes: the diabetes & aging study. Diabetes 
Care 2011;34:1749–1753
11. Kalyani RR, Golden SH, Cefalu WT. Diabetes 
and Aging: unique considerations and goals of 
care. Diabetes Care 2017;40:440–443
12. Cacchione PZ. Age-friendly health systems: the 
4Ms framework. Clin Nurs Res 2020;29:139–140
13. McClintock MK, Dale W, Laumann EO, Waite 
L. Empirical redefinition of comprehensive health 
and well-being in the older adults of the United 
States. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2016;113:E3071–
3080
14. Laiteerapong N, Iveniuk J, John PM, 
Laumann EO, Huang ES. Classification of older 
adults who have diabetes by comorbid conditions, 
S292 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

United States, 2005-2006. Prev Chronic Dis 2012; 
9:E100
15. Blaum C, Cigolle CT, Boyd C, et al. Clinical 
complexity in middle-aged and older adults with 
diabetes: the Health and Retirement Study. Med 
Care 2010;48:327–334
16. Tinetti ME, Costello DM, Naik AD, et al. 
Outcome goals and health care preferences of 
older adults with multiple chronic conditions. JAMA 
Netw Open 2021;4:e211271
17. Xue M, Xu W, Ou Y-N, et al. Diabetes mellitus 
and risks of cognitive impairment and dementia: 
a systematic review and meta-analysis of 144 
prospective studies. Ageing Res Rev 2019;55:100944
18. Roberts RO, Knopman DS, Przybelski SA, et 
al. Association of type 2 diabetes with brain 
atrophy and cognitive impairment. Neurology 
2014;82:1132–1141
19. Rodríguez-Sánchez B, Angelini V, Feenstra T, 
Alessie RJM. Diabetes-associated factors as 
predictors of nursing home admission and 
costs in the elderly across Europe. J Am Med Dir 
Assoc 2017;18:74–82
20. Xu WL, von Strauss E, Qiu CX, Winblad B, 
Fratiglioni L. Uncontrolled diabetes increases the 
risk of Alzheimer’s disease: a population-based 
cohort study. Diabetologia 2009;52:1031–1039
21. Kciuk M, Kruczkowska W, GałeRziewska J, et 
al. Alzheimer’s disease as type 3 diabetes: 
understanding the link and implications. Int J Mol 
Sci 2024;25:11955
22. Xiao Y, Hong X, Neelagar R, Mo H. Association 
between glycated hemoglobin A1c levels, control 
status, and cognitive function in type 2 diabetes: a 
prospective cohort study. Sci Rep 2025;15:5011
23. Huang L, Zhu M, Ji J. Association between 
hypoglycemia and dementia in patients with 
diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis 
of 1.4 million patients. Diabetol Metab Syndr 
2022;14:31
24. Livingston G, Huntley J, Sommerlad A, et al. 
Dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 
2020 report of the Lancet Commission. Lancet 
2020;396:413–446
25. Launer LJ, Miller ME, Williamson JD, et al.; 
ACCORD MIND investigators. Effects of intensive 
glucose lowering on brain structure and function 
in people with type 2 diabetes (ACCORD MIND): 
a randomised open-label substudy. Lancet Neurol 
2011;10:969–977
26. Luchsinger JA, Ma Y, Christophi CA, et al.; 
Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. 
Metformin, lifestyle intervention, and cognition 
in the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes 
Study. Diabetes Care 2017;40:958–965
27. Tian S, Jiang J, Wang J, et al. Comparison on 
cognitive outcomes of antidiabetic agents for 
type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and network 
meta-analysis. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023;39: 
e3673
28. Seminar A, Mulihano A, O’Brien C, et al. 
Cardioprotective glucose-lowering agents and 
dementia risk: a systematic review and meta- 
analysis. JAMA Neurol 2025;82:450–460
29. National Institute on Aging. Assessing 
cognitive impairment in older patients. Accessed 
28 August 2025. Available from https://www.nia 
.nih.gov/health/assessing-cognitive-impairment- 
older-patients
30. Alzheimer’s Association. Cognitive assessment. 
Accessed 28 August 2025. Available from https:// 
alz.org/professionals/healthcare-professionals/ 
cognitive-assessment
31. Borson S, Scanlan JM, Chen P, Ganguli M. 
The Mini-Cog as a screen for dementia: validation 
in a population-based sample. J Am Geriatr Soc 
2003;51:1451–1454
32. Folstein MF, Folstein SE, McHugh PR. “Mini- 
mental state”. A practical method for grading the 
cognitive state of patients for the clinician. J 
Psychiatr Res 1975;12:189–198
33. Nasreddine ZS, Phillips NA, Bédirian V, et al. 
The Montreal Cognitive Assessment, MoCA: a 
brief screening tool for mild cognitive impairment. 
J Am Geriatr Soc 2005;53:695–699
34. Moreno G, Mangione CM, Kimbro L, Vaisberg 
E, American Geriatrics Society Expert Panel on Care 
of Older Adults with Diabetes Mellitus. Guidelines 
abstracted from the American Geriatrics Society 
Guidelines for Improving the Care of Older Adults 
with Diabetes Mellitus: 2013 update. J Am Geriatr 
Soc 2013;61:2020–2026
35. American Psychological Association. Guidelines 
for the evaluation of dementia and age-related 
cognitive change, 2021. Accessed 28 August 2025. 
Available from https://www.apa.org/practice/ 
guidelines/dementia.aspx
36. Lee AK, Lee CJ, Huang ES, Sharrett AR, Coresh 
J, Selvin E. Risk factors for severe hypoglycemia 
in black and white adults with diabetes: the 
Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. 
Diabetes Care 2017;40:1661–1667
37. Feinkohl I, Aung PP, Keller M, et al.; 
Edinburgh Type 2 Diabetes Study (ET2DS) 
Investigators. Severe hypoglycemia and cognitive 
decline in older people with type 2 diabetes: the 
Edinburgh Type 2 Diabetes Study. Diabetes Care 
2014;37:507–515
38. Lee AK, Rawlings AM, Lee CJ, et al. Severe 
hypoglycaemia, mild cognitive impairment, dementia 
and brain volumes in older adults with type 2 
diabetes: the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities 
(ARIC) cohort study. Diabetologia 2018;61:1956–
1965
39. Jacobson AM, Ryan CM, Braffett BH, et al.; 
DCCT/EDIC Research Group. Cognitive performance 
declines in older adults with type 1 diabetes: 
results from 32 years of follow-up in the DCCT and 
EDIC Study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2021;9: 
436–445
40. Karter AJ, Warton EM, Lipska KJ, et al. 
Development and validation of a tool to identify 
patients with type 2 diabetes at high risk of 
hypoglycemia-related emergency department or 
hospital use. JAMA Intern Med 2017;177:1461–
1470
41. Munshi M, Kahkoska AR, Neumiller JJ, et al. 
Realigning diabetes regimens in older adults: a 4S 
Pathway to guide simplification and deprescribing 
strategies. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2025;13: 
427–437
42. Gerstein HC, Miller ME, Byington RP, et al.; 
Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes 
Study Group. Effects of intensive glucose lowering 
in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:2545–
2559
43. Duckworth W, Abraira C, Moritz T, et al.; 
VADT Investigators. Glucose control and vascular 
complications in veterans with type 2 diabetes. N 
Engl J Med 2009;360:129–139
44. Carlson AL, Kanapka LG, Miller KM, et al.; 
WISDM Study Group. Hypoglycemia and glycemic 
control in older adults with type 1 diabetes: 
baseline results from the WISDM study. J Diabetes 
Sci Technol 2021;15:582–592
45. Pratley RE, Kanapka LG, Rickels MR, et al.; 
Wireless Innovation for Seniors With Diabetes 
Mellitus (WISDM) Study Group. Effect of continuous 
glucose monitoring on hypoglycemia in older adults 
with type 1 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial. 
JAMA 2020;323:2397–2406
46. Miller KM, Kanapka LG, Rickels MR, et al. 
Benefit of continuous glucose monitoring in 
reducing hypoglycemia is sustained through 
12 months of use among older adults with 
type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2022;24: 
424–434
47. Gubitosi-Klug RA, Braffett BH, Bebu I, et al. 
Continuous glucose monitoring in adults with 
type 1 diabetes with 35 years duration from the 
DCCT/EDIC study. Diabetes Care 2022;45:659–665
48. Munshi MN, Slyne C, Adam A, et al. 
Continuous glucose monitoring with geriatric 
principles in older adults with type 1 diabetes 
and hypoglycemia: a randomized controlled trial. 
Diabetes Care 2025;48:694–702
49. Ruedy KJ, Parkin CG, Riddlesworth TD, 
Graham C; DIAMOND Study Group. Continuous 
glucose monitoring in older adults with type 1 
and type 2 diabetes using multiple daily injections 
of insulin: results from the DIAMOND trial. J 
Diabetes Sci Technol 2017;11:1138–1146
50. Bao S, Bailey R, Calhoun P, Beck RW. 
Effectiveness of continuous glucose monitoring 
in older adults with type 2 diabetes treated with 
basal insulin. Diabetes Technol Ther 2022;24: 
299–306
51. Tadros M, Sewell H, O’Neal KS. Considerations 
with using a CGM in older individuals. Sr Care 
Pharm 2025;40:283–287
52. McAuley SA, Trawley S, Vogrin S, et al. 
Closed-loop insulin delivery versus sensor- 
augmented pump therapy in older adults with 
type 1 diabetes (ORACL): a randomized, crossover 
trial. Diabetes Care 2022;45:381–390
53. Boughton CK, Hartnell S, Thabit H, et al. 
Hybrid closed-loop glucose control compared 
with sensor augmented pump therapy in older 
adults with type 1 diabetes: an open-label 
multicentre, multinational, randomised, crossover 
study. Lancet Healthy Longev 2022;3:e135–e142
54. Reznik Y, Carvalho M, Fendri S, et al. Should 
people with type 2 diabetes treated by multiple 
daily insulin injections with home health care 
support be switched to hybrid closed-loop? The 
CLOSE AP+ randomized controlled trial. Diabetes 
Obes Metab 2024;26:622–630
55. Kudva YC, Henderson RJ, Kanapka LG, et al.; 
AIDE Study Group. Automated insulin delivery 
in elderly with type 1 diabetes: a prespecified 
analysis of the extension phase. Diabetes Technol 
Ther 2025;27:572–575
56. Forlenza GP, Carlson AL, Galindo RJ, et al. 
Real-world evidence supporting tandem control-IQ 
hybrid closed-loop success in the Medicare and 
Medicaid type 1 and type 2 diabetes populations. 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2022;24:814–823
57. Selvin E, Coresh J, Brancati FL. The burden 
and treatment of diabetes in elderly individuals 
in the U.S. Diabetes Care 2006;29:2415–2419
58. Bandeen-Roche K, Seplaki CL, Huang J, et al. 
Frailty in older adults: a nationally representative 
profile in the United States. J Gerontol A Biol Sci 
Med Sci 2015;70:1427–1434
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S293 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

59. Kalyani RR, Tian J, Xue Q-L, et al. Hyperglycemia 
and incidence of frailty and lower extremity mobility 
limitations in older women. J Am Geriatr Soc 2012; 
60:1701–1707
60. Pilla SJ, Schoenborn NL, Maruthur NM, 
Huang ES. Approaches to risk assessment among 
older patients with diabetes. Curr Diab Rep 2019; 
19:59
61. Griffith KN, Prentice JC, Mohr DC, Conlin PR. 
Predicting 5- and 10-year mortality risk in older 
adults with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2020;43: 
1724–1731
62. Karter AJ, Parker MM, Moffet HH, et al. 
Development and validation of the Life Expectancy 
Estimator for Older Adults with Diabetes (LEAD): 
the diabetes and aging study. J Gen Intern Med 
2023;38:2860–2869
63. Deardorff WJ, Covinsky K. Incorporating 
prognosis into clinical decision-making for older 
adults with diabetes. J Gen Intern Med 2023;38: 
2857–2859
64. Brown SES, Meltzer DO, Chin MH, Huang ES. 
Perceptions of quality-of-life effects of treatments 
for diabetes mellitus in vulnerable and nonvulner- 
able older patients. J Am Geriatr Soc 2008;56: 
1183–1190
65. National Glycohemoglobin Standardization 
Program. Factors that interfere with HbA1c test 
results. Accessed 28 August 2025. Available from 
https://ngsp.org/factors.asp
66. Parrinello CM, Selvin E. Beyond HbA1c and 
glucose: the role of nontraditional glycemic markers 
in diabetes diagnosis, prognosis, and management. 
Curr Diab Rep 2014;14:548
67. Selvin E, Rawlings AM, Lutsey PL, et al. 
Fructosamine and glycated albumin and the risk 
of cardiovascular outcomes and death. Circulation 
2015;132:269–277
68. Rooney MR, Daya N, Tang O, et al. Glycated 
albumin and risk of mortality in the US adult 
population. Clin Chem 2022;68:422–430
69. Leung V, Wroblewski K, Schumm LP, Huisingh- 
Scheetz M, Huang ES. Reexamining the 
classification of older adults with diabetes by 
comorbidities and exploring relationships with 
frailty, disability, and 5-year mortality. J Gerontol 
A Biol Sci Med Sci 2021;76:2071–2079
70. Cigolle CT, Kabeto MU, Lee PG, Blaum CS. 
Clinical complexity and mortality in middle-aged 
and older adults with diabetes. J Gerontol A Biol 
Sci Med Sci 2012;67:1313–1320
71. Le P, Ayers G, Misra-Hebert AD, et al. 
Adherence to the American Diabetes Association’s 
glycemic goals in the treatment of diabetes among 
older americans, 2001–2018. Diabetes Care 2022; 
45:1107–1115
72. Huang ES, Zhang Q, Gandra N, Chin MH, 
Meltzer DO. The effect of comorbid illness and 
functional status on the expected benefits of 
intensive glucose control in older patients with 
type 2 diabetes: a decision analysis. Ann Intern 
Med 2008;149:11–19
73. Huang ES, Laiteerapong N, Liu JY, John PM, 
Moffet HH, Karter AJ. Rates of complications and 
mortality in older patients with diabetes mellitus: 
the diabetes and aging study. JAMA Intern Med 
2014;174:251–258
74. Lipska KJ, Gilliam LK, Lee C, et al. Risk of 
infection in older adults with type 2 diabetes with 
relaxed glycemic control. Diabetes Care 2024;47: 
2258–2265
75. Huang ES, Liu JY, Lipska KJ, et al. Data-driven 
classification of health status of older adults with 
diabetes: the diabetes and aging study. J Am 
Geriatr Soc 2023;71:2120–2130
76. Rooney MR, Tang O, Echouffo Tcheugui JB, 
et al. American Diabetes Association framework 
for glycemic control in older adults: implications 
for risk of hospitalization and mortality. Diabetes 
Care 2021;44:1524–1531
77. Sinclair A, Dunning T, Colagiuri S. International 
Diabetes Federation (IDF) Global Guideline for 
Managing Older People with Type 2 Diabetes. 
International Diabetes Federation, 2013
78. Angelo M, Ruchalski C, Sproge BJ. An 
approach to diabetes mellitus in hospice and 
palliative medicine. J Palliat Med 2011;14:83–87
79. Beckett NS, Peters R, Fletcher AE, et al.; 
HYVET Study Group. Treatment of hypertension 
in patients 80 years of age or older. N Engl J Med 
2008;358:1887–1898
80. de Boer IH, Bangalore S, Benetos A, et al. 
Diabetes and hypertension: a position statement 
by the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes 
Care 2017;40:1273–1284
81. Bi Y, Li M, Liu Y, et al.; BPROAD Research 
Group. Intensive blood-pressure control in patients 
with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2025;392: 
1155–1167
82. Gencer B, Marston NA, Im K, et al. Efficacy 
and safety of lowering LDL cholesterol in older 
patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis 
of randomised controlled trials. Lancet 2020;396: 
1637–1643
83. Yourman LC, Cenzer IS, Boscardin WJ, et al. 
Evaluation of time to benefit of statins for the 
primary prevention of cardiovascular events in 
adults aged 50 to 75 years: a meta-analysis. JAMA 
Intern Med 2021;181:179–185
84. Feng L, Gao Q, Hu K, et al. Prevalence and 
risk factors of sarcopenia in patients with 
diabetes: a meta-analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2022;107:1470–1483
85. Li M, Sun H, Chen H, Ma W, Li Y. Type 2 
diabetes and bone mineral density: a meta- 
analysis and systematic review. Medicine (Baltimore) 
2024;103:e40468
86. : U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services. 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020–2025. 
9th ed. Accessed 28 August 2025. Available from 
https://www.dietaryguidelines.gov/sites/default/ 
files/2021-03/Dietary_Guidelines_for_Americans- 
2020–2025.pdf
87. Lesser LI. In adults at CV risk, Mediterranean- 
style or low-fat dietary programs vs. minimal 
interventions reduce all-cause mortality. Ann Intern 
Med 2023;176:Jc78
88. Ley SH, Hamdy O, Mohan V, Hu FB. 
Prevention and management of type 2 diabetes: 
dietary components and nutritional strategies. 
Lancet 2014;383:1999–2007
89. Whaikid P, Piaseu N. The effectiveness of 
protein supplementation combined with resistance 
exercise programs among community-dwelling 
older adults with sarcopenia: a systematic review 
and meta-analysis. Epidemiol Health 2024;46: 
e2024030
90. Tao J, Ke Y-Y, Zhang Z, et al. Comparison of 
the value of malnutrition and sarcopenia for 
predicting mortality in hospitalized old adults 
over 80 years. Exp Gerontol 2020;138:111007
91. Beaudart C, Sanchez-Rodriguez D, Locquet M, 
Reginster J-Y, Lengelé L, Bruyère O. Malnutrition as 
a strong predictor of the onset of sarcopenia. 
Nutrients 2019;11:2883
92. Liu G-X, Chen Y, Yang Y-X, et al. Pilot study of 
the Mini Nutritional Assessment on predicting 
outcomes in older adults with type 2 diabetes. 
Geriatr Gerontol Int 2017;17:2485–2492
93. Malara A, Sgrò G, Caruso C, et al. Relationship 
between cognitive impairment and nutritional 
assessment on functional status in Calabrian 
long-term-care. Clin Interv Aging 2014;9:105–110
94. Alfonso-Rosa RM, Del Pozo-Cruz B, Del Pozo- 
Cruz J, Del Pozo-Cruz JT, Sañudo B. The relationship 
between nutritional status, functional capacity, 
and health-related quality of life in older adults 
with type 2 diabetes: a pilot explanatory study. J 
Nutr Health Aging 2013;17:315–321
95. Pahor M, Guralnik JM, Ambrosius WT, et al.; 
LIFE study investigators. Effect of structured 
physical activity on prevention of major mobility 
disability in older adults: the LIFE study randomized 
clinical trial. JAMA 2014;311:2387–2396
96. Bray G, Gregg E, Haffner S, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Research Group. Baseline characteristics 
of the randomised cohort from the Look AHEAD 
(Action for Health in Diabetes) study. Diab Vasc 
Dis Res 2006;3:202–215
97. Curtis JM, Horton ES, Bahnson J, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Research Group. Prevalence and pre- 
dictors of abnormal cardiovascular responses to 
exercise testing among individuals with type 2 
diabetes: the Look AHEAD (Action for Health in 
Diabetes) study. Diabetes Care 2010;33:901–907
98. Wing RR, Bolin P, Brancati FL, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Research Group. Cardiovascular effects of 
intensive lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2013;369:145–154
99. Gregg E, Jakicic J, Blackburn G, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Research Group. Association of the 
magnitude of weight loss and changes in physical 
fitness with long-term cardiovascular disease 
outcomes in overweight or obese people with 
type 2 diabetes: a post-hoc analysis of the Look 
AHEAD randomised clinical trial. Lancet Diabetes 
Endocrinol 2016;4:913–921
100. Gregg EW, Chen H, Wagenknecht LE, et al.; 
Look AHEAD Research Group. Association of an 
intensive lifestyle intervention with remission of 
type 2 diabetes. JAMA 2012;308:2489–2496
101. Rejeski WJ, Bray GA, Chen S-H, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Research Group. Aging and physical 
function in type 2 diabetes: 8 years of an intensive 
lifestyle intervention. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 
2015;70:345–353
102. Espeland MA, Rejeski WJ, West DS, et al.; 
Action for Health in Diabetes Research Group. 
Intensive weight loss intervention in older 
individuals: results from the Action for Health 
in Diabetes Type 2 diabetes mellitus trial. J Am 
Geriatr Soc 2013;61:912–922
103. Houston DK, Neiberg RH, Miller ME, et al. 
Physical function following a long-term lifestyle 
intervention among middle aged and older adults 
with type 2 diabetes: the Look AHEAD study. J 
Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2018;73:1552–1559
104. Simpson FR, Pajewski NM, Nicklas B, et al.; 
Indices for Accelerated Aging in Obesity and 
Diabetes Ancillary Study of the Action for Health 
in Diabetes (Look AHEAD) Trial. Impact of multi- 
domain lifestyle intervention on frailty through 
the lens of deficit accumulation in adults with 
S294 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Gerontol A Biol Sci 
Med Sci 2020;75:1921–1927
105. Espeland MA, Gaussoin SA, Bahnson J, 
et al. Impact of an 8-year intensive lifestyle 
intervention on an index of multimorbidity. J Am 
Geriatr Soc 2020;68:2249–2256
106. Gregg EW, Lin J, Bardenheier B, et al.; Look 
AHEAD Study Group. Impact of intensive lifestyle 
intervention on disability-free life expectancy: 
the Look AHEAD study. Diabetes Care 2018;41: 
1040–1048
107. Park J, Zhang P, Wang Y, Zhou X, Look KA, 
Bigman ET. High out-of-pocket health care cost 
burden among Medicare beneficiaries with 
diabetes, 1999–2017. Diabetes Care 2021;44: 
1797–1804
108. Patel MR, Resnicow K, Lang I, Kraus K, 
Heisler M. Solutions to address diabetes-related 
financial burden and cost-related nonadherence: 
results from a pilot study. Health Educ Behav 2018; 
45:101–111
109. Arnold SV, Lipska KJ, Wang J, Seman L, 
Mehta SN, Kosiborod M. Use of intensive glycemic 
management in older adults with diabetes 
mellitus. J Am Geriatr Soc 2018;66:1190–1194
110. Andreassen LM, Sandberg S, Kristensen 
GBB, Sølvik UØ, Kjome RLS. Nursing home 
patients with diabetes: prevalence, drug treatment 
and glycemic control. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2014; 
105:102–109
111. Lipska KJ, Ross JS, Miao Y, Shah ND, Lee SJ, 
Steinman MA. Potential overtreatment of diabetes 
mellitus in older adults with tight glycemic control. 
JAMA Intern Med 2015;175:356–362
112. Thorpe CT, Gellad WF, Good CB, et al. Tight 
glycemic control and use of hypoglycemic medi- 
cations in older veterans with type 2 diabetes and 
comorbid dementia. Diabetes Care 2015;38: 
588–595
113. McAlister FA, Youngson E, Eurich DT. 
Treatment deintensification is uncommon in adults 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a retrospective 
cohort study. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes 
2017;10:e003514
114. Seidu S, Kunutsor SK, Topsever P, Hambling 
CE, Cos FX, Khunti K. Deintensification in older 
patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review 
of approaches, rates and outcomes. Diabetes 
Obes Metab 2019;21:1668–1679
115. Weiner JZ, Gopalan A, Mishra P, et al. Use 
and discontinuation of insulin treatment among 
adults aged 75 to 79 years with type 2 diabetes. 
JAMA Intern Med 2019;179:1633–1641
116. Orloff J, Min JY, Mushlin A, Flory J. Safety 
and effectiveness of metformin in patients with 
reduced renal function: a systematic review. 
Diabetes Obes Metab 2021;23:2035–2047
117. Aroda VR, Edelstein SL, Goldberg RB, et al.; 
Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. 
Long-term metformin use and vitamin B12 
deficiency in the Diabetes Prevention Program 
Outcomes Study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2016; 
101:1754–1761
118. Schwartz AV, Chen H, Ambrosius WT, et al. 
Effects of TZD use and discontinuation on fracture 
rates in ACCORD bone study. J Clin Endocrinol 
Metab 2015;100:4059–4066
119. Billington EO, Grey A, Bolland MJ. The 
effect of thiazolidinediones on bone mineral 
density and bone turnover: systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Diabetologia 2015;58:2238–2246
120. Zhou Y, Huang Y, Ji X, Wang X, Shen L, Wang 
Y. Pioglitazone for the primary and secondary 
prevention of cardiovascular and renal outcomes 
in patients with or at high risk of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus: a meta-analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2020;105:dgz252
121. Tramontana F, Napoli N, Litwack-Harrison 
S, et al. More rapid bone mineral density loss in 
older men with diabetes: the Osteoporotic Fractures 
in Men (MrOS) study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2024;109:e2283–e2290
122. Napoli N, Strotmeyer ES, Ensrud KE, et al. 
Fracture risk in diabetic elderly men: the MrOS 
study. Diabetologia 2014;57:2057–2065
123. Zhang Y-S, Zheng Y-D, Yuan Y, Chen S-C, Xie 
B-C. Effects of anti-diabetic drugs on fracture risk: 
a systematic review and network meta-analysis. 
Front Endocrinol (Lausanne) 2021;12:735824
124. Wang B, Wang Z, Poundarik AA, et al. 
Unmasking fracture risk in type 2 diabetes: the 
association of longitudinal glycemic hemoglobin 
level and medications. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2022;107:e1390–e1401
125. Turchin A, Petito LC, Hegermiller E, et al. 
Cardiovascular events in individuals treated with 
sulfonylureas or dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors. 
JAMA Netw Open 2025;8:e2523067
126. American Geriatrics Society 2015 Beers 
Criteria Update Expert Panel. American Geriatrics 
Society 2015 updated Beers Criteria for potentially 
inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am 
Geriatr Soc 2015;63:2227–2246
127. Parekh TM, Raji M, Lin Y-L, Tan A, Kuo Y-F, 
Goodwin JS. Hypoglycemia after antimicrobial drug 
prescription for older patients using sulfonylureas. 
JAMA Intern Med 2014;174:1605–1612
128. Lee S, Ock M, Kim H-S, Kim H. Effects of co- 
administration of sulfonylureas and antimicrobial 
drugs on hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 
diabetes using a case-crossover design. Pharma- 
cotherapy 2020;40:902–912
129. Pilla SJ, Pitts SI, Maruthur NM. High con- 
current use of sulfonylureas and antimicrobials 
with drug interactions causing hypoglycemia. J 
Patient Saf 2022;18:e217–e224
130. Bilal A, Yi F, Gonzalez GR, et al. Effects of 
newer anti-hyperglycemic agents on cardiovascular 
outcomes in older adults: systematic review and 
meta-analysis. J Diabetes Complications 2024; 
38:108783
131. Karagiannis T, Tsapas A, Athanasiadou E, et 
al. GLP-1 receptor agonists and SGLT2 inhibitors 
for older people with type 2 diabetes: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 
2021;174:108737
132. Malhotra A, Grunstein RR, Fietze I, et al.; 
SURMOUNT-OSA Investigators. Tirzepatide for the 
treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and obesity. 
N Engl J Med 2024;391:1193–1205
133. Bliddal H, Bays H, Czernichow S, et al.; STEP 9 
Study Group. Once-weekly semaglutide in persons 
with obesity and knee osteoarthritis. N Engl J Med 
2024;391:1573–1583
134. Loomba R, Hartman ML, Lawitz EJ, et al.; 
SYNERGY-NASH Investigators. Tirzepatide for 
metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis 
with liver fibrosis. N Engl J Med 2024;391:299–310
135. Sanyal AJ, Newsome PN, Kliers I, et al.; 
ESSENCE Study Group. Phase 3 trial of semaglutide 
in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis. 
N Engl J Med 2025;392:2089–2099
136. Newsome PN, Buchholtz K, Cusi K, et al.; 
NN9931-4296 Investigators. A placebo-controlled 
trial of subcutaneous semaglutide in nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis. N Engl J Med 2021;384:1113–1124
137. Husain M, Birkenfeld AL, Donsmark M, et 
al.; PIONEER 6 Investigators. Oral semaglutide 
and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with 
type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:841–851
138. Davies MJ, D’Alessio DA, Fradkin J, et al. 
Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes, 
2018. A consensus report by the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) and the European Association for 
the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care 2018; 
41:2669–2701
139. Zinman B, Wanner C, Lachin JM, et al.; 
EMPA-REG OUTCOME Investigators. Empagliflozin, 
cardiovascular outcomes, and mortality in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2015;373:2117–2128
140. Neal B, Perkovic V, Mahaffey KW, et al.; 
CANVAS Program Collaborative Group. Canagliflozin 
and cardiovascular and renal events in type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2017;377:644–657
141. Wiviott SD, Raz I, Bonaca MP, et al.; 
DECLARE–TIMI 58 Investigators. Dapagliflozin and 
cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N 
Engl J Med 2019;380:347–357
142. Lunati ME, Cimino V, Gandolfi A, et al. 
SGLT2-inhibitors are effective and safe in the 
elderly: the SOLD study. Pharmacol Res 2022;183: 
106396
143. Scheen AJ, Bonnet F. Efficacy and safety 
profile of SGLT2 inhibitors in the elderly: how is 
the benefit/risk balance? Diabetes Metab 2023; 
49:101419
144. Lin DS-H, Lee J-K, Chen W-J. Clinical 
adverse events associated with sodium-glucose 
cotransporter 2 inhibitors: a meta-analysis involving 
10 randomized clinical trials and 71 553 individuals. 
J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2021;106:2133–2145
145. Krepostman N, Kramer H. Lower urinary 
tract symptoms should be queried when initiating 
sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors. 
Kidney360 2021;2:751–754
146. Lee AK, Lipska KJ, Callahan KE, Raphael E, 
Lee SJ. Urinary incontinence in US adults aged 
≥55 years with type 2 diabetes and indications 
for SGLT2is: NHANES 2013–2020. BMJ Open Dia- 
betes Res Care 2025;13:e004929
147. Ata F, Yousaf Z, Khan AA, et al. SGLT-2 
inhibitors associated euglycemic and hyperglycemic 
DKA in a multicentric cohort. Sci Rep 2021;11: 
10293
148. Bradley MC, Chillarige Y, Lee H, et al. Severe 
hypoglycemia risk with long-acting insulin analogs 
vs neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin. JAMA 
Intern Med 2021;181:598–607
149. Abdelhafiz AH, Sinclair AJ. Deintensification 
of hypoglycaemic medications-use of a systematic 
review approach to highlight safety concerns in 
older people with type 2 diabetes. J Diabetes 
Complications 2018;32:444–450
150. Sussman JB, Kerr EA, Saini SD, et al. Rates 
of deintensification of blood pressure and glycemic 
medication treatment based on levels of control 
and life expectancy in older patients with diabetes 
mellitus. JAMA Intern Med 2015;175:1942–1949
151. Munshi MN, Slyne C, Segal AR, Saul N, 
Lyons C, Weinger K. Simplification of insulin 
regimen in older adults and risk of hypoglycemia. 
JAMA Intern Med 2016;176:1023–1025
152. Jude EB, Malecki MT, Gomez Huelgas R, 
et al. Expert panel guidance and narrative review 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                                     
Older Adults
S295 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

of treatment simplification of complex insulin 
regimens to improve outcomes in type 2 diabetes. 
Diabetes Ther 2022;13:619–634
153. Davidson HE, Jain S, Kazdan C, Resnick B, 
Scarabelli T, Pandya N. Clinical practice guideline 
for diabetes management in the post-acute and 
long-term care setting. J Am Med Dir Assoc 2024; 
25:105342
154. Livingstone SJ, Levin D, Looker HC, et al.; 
Scottish Renal Registry. Estimated life expectancy 
in a Scottish cohort with type 1 diabetes, 2008- 
2010. JAMA 2015;313:37–44
155. Miller RG, Secrest AM, Sharma RK, Songer 
TJ, Orchard TJ. Improvements in the life expectancy 
of type 1 diabetes: the Pittsburgh Epidemiology of 
Diabetes Complications study cohort. Diabetes 
2012;61:2987–2992
156. Bullard KM, Cowie CC, Lessem SE, et al. 
Prevalence of diagnosed diabetes in adults by 
diabetes type - United States, 2016. MMWR Morb 
Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:359–361
157. Heise T, Nosek L, Rønn BB, et al. Lower within- 
subject variability of insulin detemir in comparison 
to NPH insulin and insulin glargine in people with 
type 1 diabetes. Diabetes 2004;53:1614–1620
158. Larsen AB, Hermann M, Graue M. Continuous 
glucose monitoring in older people with diabetes 
receiving home care-a feasibility study. Pilot 
Feasibility Stud 2021;7:12
159. Fløde M, Hermann M, Haugstvedt A, et al. 
High number of hypoglycaemic episodes identified 
by CGM among home-dwelling older people with 
diabetes: an observational study in Norway. BMC 
Endocr Disord 2023;23:218
160. Bouillet B, Tscherter P, Vaillard L, et al. 
Frequent and severe hypoglycaemia detected 
with continuous glucose monitoring in older 
institutionalised patients with diabetes. Age Ageing 
2021;50:2088–2093
161. Munshi MN, Slyne C, Adam A, et al. 
Excessive burden of hyperglycemia along with 
hypoglycemia in long-term care facilities identified 
by continuous glucose monitoring. J Am Med Dir 
Assoc 2025;26:105590
162. Idrees T, Castro-Revoredo IA, Oh HD, et al. 
Continuous glucose monitoring-guided insulin 
administration in long-term care facilities: a 
randomized clinical trial. J Am Med Dir Assoc 
2024;25:884–888
163. Munshi MN, Florez H, Huang ES, et al. 
Management of diabetes in long-term care and 
skilled nursing facilities: a position statement of 
the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 
2016;39:308–318
164. Sloane PD, Pandya N. Individualizing diabetes 
care in older persons with multimorbidity. J Am 
Med Dir Assoc 2021;22:1884–1888
165. Dorner B, Friedrich EK, Posthauer ME. 
Practice paper of the American Dietetic Association: 
individualized nutrition approaches for older adults 
in health care communities. J Am Diet Assoc 
2010;110:1554–1563
166. Migdal A, Yarandi SS, Smiley D, Umpierrez 
GE. Update on diabetes in the elderly and in 
nursing home residents. J Am Med Dir Assoc 
2011;12:627–632.e2
167. Pasquel FJ, Powell W, Peng L, et al. A 
randomized controlled trial comparing treatment 
with oral agents and basal insulin in elderly patients 
with type 2 diabetes in long-term care facilities. 
BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2015;3:e000104
168. Gomez-Peralta F, Abreu C, Santos E, et al. A 
telehealth program using continuous glucose 
monitoring and a connected insulin pen cap in 
nursing homes for older adults with insulin-treated 
diabetes: the Trescasas study. Diabetes Technol 
Ther 2025;27:357–365
169. Sinclair A, Morley JE, Rodriguez-Mañas L, et 
al. Diabetes mellitus in older people: position 
statement on behalf of the International Association 
of Gerontology and Geriatrics (IAGG), the European 
Diabetes Working Party for Older People (EDWPOP), 
and the International Task Force of Experts in 
Diabetes. J Am Med Dir Assoc 2012;13:497–502
170. Sharma A, Sikora L, Bush SH. Management 
of diabetes mellitus in adults at the end of life: a 
review of recent literature and guidelines. J 
Palliat Med 2019;22:1133–1138
171. Kutner JS, Blatchford PJ, Taylor DH, Jr, et al. 
Safety and benefit of discontinuing statin therapy 
in the setting of advanced, life-limiting illness: a 
randomized clinical trial. JAMA Intern Med 2015; 
175:691–700
172. Dunning T, Martin P. Palliative and end of 
life care of people with diabetes: issues, challenges 
and strategies. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2018;143: 
454–463
173. Bouça-Machado R, Rosário M, Alarc~ao J, 
Correia-Guedes L, Abreu D, Ferreira JJ. Clinical 
trials in palliative care: a systematic review of 
their methodological characteristics and of the 
quality of their reporting. BMC Palliat Care 2017; 
16:10
174. Sheppard JP, Burt J, Lown M, et al.; 
OPTIMISE Investigators. Effect of antihypertensive 
medication reduction vs usual care on short-term 
blood pressure control in patients with hypertension 
aged 80 years and older: the OPTIMISE randomized 
clinical trial. JAMA 2020;323:2039–2051
175. Ford-Dunn S, Smith A, Quin J. Management 
of diabetes during the last days of life: attitudes 
of consultant diabetologists and consultant palliative 
care physicians in the UK. Palliat Med 2006;20: 
197–203
176. Petrillo LA, Gan S, Jing B, Lang-Brown S, 
Boscardin WJ, Lee SJ. Hypoglycemia in hospice 
patients with type 2 diabetes in a national sample 
of nursing homes. JAMA Intern Med 2018;178: 
713–715
177. DePew R, Hershman T, Giles M, Rosa WE, 
Curseen K. Top ten tips palliative care clinicians 
should know about managing diabetes at end-of- 
life. J Palliat Med 2025:10.1089/jpm.2025.0226
178. Mallery LH, Ransom T, Steeves B, Cook B, 
Dunbar P, Moorhouse P. Evidence-informed 
guidelines for treating frail older adults with type 2 
diabetes: from the Diabetes Care Program of Nova 
Scotia (DCPNS) and the Palliative and Therapeutic 
Harmonization (PATH) program. J Am Med Dir 
Assoc 2013;14:801–808
179. Savage S, Duggan N, Dunning T, Martin P. 
The experiences and care preferences of people 
with diabetes at the end of life: a qualitative 
study. Journal of Hospice & Palliative Nursing 
2012;14:293–302
180. University of Edinburgh. SPICT Supportive 
and Palliative Care Indicators Tool. Accessed 28 
August 2025. Available from https://www.spict.org.uk/ 
the-spict
181. Royal College of General Practitioners. The 
Gold Standards Framework Proactive Identification 
Guidance (PIG). Accessed 28 August 2025. 
Available from https://www.caresearch.com.au/ 
Portals/20/Documents/Health-Professionals/ 
Proactive_Identification_Guidance_v7_(2022).pdf
182. Bellelli G, Morandi A, Davis DHJ, et al. 
Validation of the 4AT, a new instrument for rapid 
delirium screening: a study in 234 hospitalised 
older people. Age Ageing 2014;43:496–502
183. Hoyl MT, Alessi CA, Harker JO, et al. 
Development and testing of a five-item version of 
the Geriatric Depression Scale. J Am Geriatr Soc 
1999;47:873–878
184. Yesavage JA, Brink TL, Rose TL, et al. 
Development and validation of a geriatric depression 
screening scale: a preliminary report. J Psychiatr 
Res 1982;17:37–49
185. Stevens JA, Phelan EA. Development of 
STEADI: a fall prevention resource for health care 
providers. Health Promot Pract 2013;14:706–714
186. Rockwood K, Song X, MacKnight C, et al. A 
global clinical measure of fitness and frailty in 
elderly people. CMAJ 2005;173:489–495
187. Kaiser MJ, Bauer JM, Ramsch C, et al.; 
MNA-International Group. Validation of the Mini 
Nutritional Assessment short-form (MNA-SF): a 
practical tool for identification of nutritional 
status. J Nutr Health Aging 2009;13:782–788
188. 2023 American Geriatrics Society Beers 
Criteria Expert Panel. American Geriatrics Society 
2023 updated AGS Beers Criteria for potentially 
inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am 
Geriatr Soc 2023;71:2052–2081
189. Malmstrom TK, Miller DK, Simonsick EM, 
Ferrucci L, Morley JE. SARC-F: a symptom score 
to predict persons with sarcopenia at risk for 
poor functional outcomes. J Cachexia Sarcopenia 
Muscle 2016;7:28–36
190. Pirozzo S, Papinczak T, Glasziou P. Whispered 
voice test for screening for hearing impairment 
in adults and children: systematic review. BMJ 
2003;327:967
191. Bastien CH, Vallières A, Morin CM. Validation 
of the Insomnia Severity Index as an outcome 
measure for insomnia research. Sleep Med 2001; 
2:297–307
192. Brown JS, Bradley CS, Subak LL, et al.; 
Diagnostic Aspects of Incontinence Study (DAISy) 
Research Group. The sensitivity and specificity of 
a simple test to distinguish between urge and 
stress urinary incontinence. Ann Intern Med 2006; 
144:715–723
193. Park SW, Goodpaster BH, Strotmeyer ES, 
et al.; Health, Aging, and Body Composition Study. 
Accelerated loss of skeletal muscle strength in 
older adults with type 2 diabetes: the Health, 
Aging, and Body Composition Study. Diabetes Care 
2007;30:1507–1512
194. Munshi MN, Slyne C, Segal AR, Saul N, Lyons 
C, Weinger K. Liberating A1C goals in older adults 
may not protect against the risk of hypoglycemia. J 
Diabetes Complications 2017;31:1197–1199
S296 
Older Adults                                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S277/848834/dc26s013.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026
