14. CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS
14. Children and Adolescents:
Standards of Care in
Diabetes—2026
Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S297–S320 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S014
American Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee for 
Diabetes*
*A complete list of members of the American 
Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee 
for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/ 
10.2337/dc26-SINT.
This section has received endorsement from The 
International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent 
Diabetes.
Duality of interest information for each contributor 
is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.
Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association 
Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 14. 
Children and adolescents: Standards of Care in 
Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care 2026; 49(Suppl. 1): 
S297–S320
© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. 
Readers may use this work for educational, 
noncommercial purposes if properly cited and 
unaltered. The version of record may be linked 
at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA 
permission is required to post this work on any 
third-party site or platform. This publication and 
its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, 
or used for text or data mining, machine 
learning, or similar technologies without prior 
written permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or 
distribute this work may be sent to permissions@ 
diabetes.org. More information is available at 
https://diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes 
the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the 
components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to 
evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for 
Diabetes, an interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the 
Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed descrip-
tion of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading sys-
tem for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice 
Committee members, please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readers who 
wish to comment on the Standards of Care are invited to do so at professional 
.diabetes.org/SOC.
The management of diabetes in children and adolescents cannot simply be derived 
from care routinely provided to adults with diabetes. The epidemiology, pathophys-
iology, developmental considerations, and response to therapy in pediatric diabetes 
are often different from those of adult diabetes. There are also differences in rec-
ommended care for children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, 
and other forms of diabetes.
This section is organized into four major parts: the first part introduces type 1 and 
type 2 diabetes in children and adolescents. The second part addresses care for chil-
dren and adolescents with all types of diabetes, including diabetes self-management 
education and support (DSMES) and nutrition therapy; the third part addresses care 
specifically for children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, and the fourth part ad-
dresses care specifically for children and adolescents with type 2 diabetes. Mono-
genic diabetes (neonatal diabetes and maturity-onset diabetes of the young) and 
cystic fibrosis–related diabetes, which are often present in children and adolescents, 
are discussed in section 2, “Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes.” Table 14.1 pro-
vides recommendations for screening and treatment of complications and related 
conditions in pediatric type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. In addition to com-
prehensive diabetes care, children and adolescents with diabetes should receive 
age-appropriate and developmentally appropriate pediatric care, including immu-
nizations as recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) (1). To 
ensure continued care as a person with diabetes becomes an adult, guidance is pro-
vided at the end of this section on the transition from pediatric to adult diabetes 
care.
Expert opinion and a review of available and relevant experimental data are sum-
marized in the American Diabetes Association (ADA) position statements “Type 1 
Diabetes in Children and Adolescents” (2) and “Evaluation and Management of 
Youth-Onset Type 2 Diabetes” (3). Finally, other sections in the Standards of Care 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026
S297
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

may have recommendations that apply 
to children and adolescents with diabe-
tes and are referenced in the narrative 
of this section.
INTRODUCTION TO TYPE 1 
DIABETES IN CHILDREN AND 
ADOLESCENTS
Type 1 diabetes is the most common form 
of diabetes in children and adolescents (4), 
although there are more adults living with 
and diagnosed with type 1 diabetes (5). 
Nearly 4 in every 1,000 children and ado-
lescents in the U.S. were reported to have 
type 1 diabetes from 2019 through 2022 
(6). The health care professional must con-
sider the unique aspects of care and man-
agement of children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes, such as changes in insulin 
sensitivity related to physical growth and 
sexual maturation, ability to provide self- 
care, supervision in the childcare and 
school and athletic environments, emerg-
ing independence in adolescents, neuro-
logical vulnerability to hypoglycemia and 
hyperglycemia in young children, and ad-
verse neurocognitive effects of diabetic ke-
toacidosis (DKA) (7). Attention to family 
dynamics, developmental stages, and 
physiologic differences related to sexual 
maturity is essential in developing and 
implementing an optimal diabetes treat-
ment plan (8). Additionally, more people 
(adults, children, and adolescents) with 
type 1 diabetes are living with obesity than 
in the past, which adds to the complexity 
of living with and managing type 1 diabetes 
(9). Information addressing issues specific 
to children and adolescents with type 1 di-
abetes (e.g., glycemic goals, DKA, pumps 
and automated insulin dosing, autoimmu-
nity) is provided in TYPE 1 DIABETES IN CHILDREN 
AND ADOLESCENTS, below.
INTRODUCTION TO TYPE 2 
DIABETES IN CHILDREN AND 
ADOLESCENTS
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes in chil-
dren and adolescents has continued to in-
crease over the past 20 years (4). The U.S. 
Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion published projections for type 2 dia-
betes prevalence using the SEARCH for 
Diabetes in Youth (SEARCH) study database. 
Assuming a 2.3% annual increase, the prev-
alence among those under 20 years of age 
will quadruple in 40 years (10,11). Informa-
tion addressing issues specific to children 
and adolescents with type 2 diabetes is 
provided in TYPE 2 DIABETES IN CHILDREN AND 
ADOLESCENTS, below.
Evidence suggests that type 2 diabetes 
in children and adolescents is different 
not only from type 1 diabetes but also 
from type 2 diabetes in adults and has 
unique features, such as a more rapidly 
progressive decline in β-cell function and 
accelerated development of diabetes com-
plications (3,12). Long-term follow-up data 
from the Treatment Options for Type 2 Dia-
betes in Adolescents and Youth (TODAY) 
study reported most individuals with type 2 
diabetes diagnosed as children or adoles-
cents had microvascular complications by 
young adulthood (13). Type 2 diabetes dis-
proportionately impacts youth from histor-
ically marginalized communities and can 
occur in complex psychosocial and cultural 
contexts which may make it difficult to 
implement and sustain healthy lifestyle 
changes and self-management behav-
iors (9,14,15). Additional risk factors in-
clude obesity and excess adiposity (16), 
family history of diabetes possibly mediated 
by shared genetics, lifestyle, and environ-
mental factors (17), female sex, maternal 
gestational diabetes mellitus (18), and 
adverse social determinants of health 
(12). Information addressing issues spe-
cific to children and adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes (e.g., glycemic goals) is 
provided in TYPE 2  DIABETES IN CHILDREN AND 
ADOLESCENTS, below.
GUIDELINES FOR ALL CHILDREN 
AND ADOLESCENTS WITH 
DIABETES
Diabetes Self-Management Education 
and Support
An interprofessional team trained in pedi-
atric diabetes management and sensitive 
to the challenges of diabetes manage-
ment in children and adolescents, as well 
as their family members, should provide 
diabetes-specific care for this population. 
It is essential that DSMES, medical nutri-
tion therapy, and psychosocial and behav-
ioral support be provided at diagnosis 
and routinely (e.g., at each follow-up visit) 
thereafter in a developmentally appropri-
ate format that builds on prior knowledge 
by a team of health care professionals ex-
perienced with the biological, educational, 
nutritional, behavioral, and emotional 
needs of the growing child and adolescent 
along with family members. Children and 
adolescents with diabetes spend much 
of the day in school. Therefore, close 
communication with and the coopera-
tion of school personnel are essential for 
optimal diabetes management and safety 
and maximal academic and athletic oppor-
tunities. The diabetes team should ask 
about and discuss diabetes management 
responsibilities with children, adolescents, 
and parents or caregivers on an ongoing 
basis, taking into account developmental 
and psychosocial needs.
Recommendation
14.1 Children and adolescents with 
diabetes, and their parents or care-
givers (for individuals aged <18 years), 
should receive comprehensive, cultur-
ally sensitive, and developmentally 
appropriate individualized diabetes 
self-management education and sup-
port according to reference standards 
at diagnosis and routinely thereafter. B
Pediatric DSMES, whether for type 1 or 
type 2 diabetes, involves both children 
and adolescents and their parents or 
caregivers. Family involvement is a vital 
component of optimal diabetes manage-
ment throughout childhood and adoles-
cence. However, no matter how sound 
the medical plan is, self-management will 
only be effective if the affected indi-
viduals and/or family can implement 
it. In a 2024 meta-analysis of 42 ran-
domized controlled trials (RCTs) con-
ducted across the globe, in children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, 
both educational DSMES and psycho-
logical support were found to improve 
A1C (19). While there are no DSMES 
meta-analyses on children or adoles-
cents with type 2 diabetes, a 2024 sys-
tematic review and meta-analysis of 55 
family-based type 2 diabetes prevention 
studies reported that lifestyle behaviors, 
body weight, and body fat percentage all 
improved following family participation in 
prevention-focused programs (20).
Diabetes care requires an approach 
that places the child or adolescent with 
diabetes and their parents or caregivers 
at the center of the care model. The 
care team must be capable of evaluat-
ing the educational, behavioral, emo-
tional, and psychosocial factors that 
affect treatment plan implementation 
and must work with the children, ado-
lescents, and family members to overcome 
barriers or redefine goals as appropriate. 
As the child with diabetes enters the 
S298 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

adolescent years, part of the clinical visit 
should include time for the health care 
professional to meet alone with the ado-
lescent to begin the process of increas-
ing autonomy.
As a child or adolescent with diabetes 
grows, develops, and acquires the need 
and desire for greater independent self- 
care skills, DSMES requires periodic and 
routine (e.g., at each follow-up visit) reas-
sessment. The pediatric diabetes care 
team should work with children and ado-
lescents with diabetes and their parents 
or caregivers to ensure there is not a pre-
mature transfer of self-management tasks 
to children and adolescents during this 
time. In addition, it is important to assess 
the educational needs and skills of, and 
provide training to, daycare workers, school 
nurses, and school personnel who are re-
sponsible for the care and supervision of 
the child with diabetes (21). An interpro-
fessional diabetes team, including a physi-
cian or advanced practice health care 
professional (e.g., nurse practitioner, phy-
sician assistant), certified diabetes care 
and education specialist (CDCES), regis-
tered dietitian nutritionist, and behav-
ioral health specialist or social worker, is 
essential. For children and adolescents 
with type 2 diabetes, initial treatment 
must include management of comorbid-
ities such as obesity, dyslipidemia, hyper-
tension, and microvascular complications 
along with assessment of social needs.
For children and adolescents with all 
types of diabetes, providing education 
on healthy lifestyle behaviors is critically 
important, and typically this is done 
through DSMES. For those with type 1 
diabetes, insulin therapy is paramount, 
alongside DSMES. For treatment of type 2 
diabetes in children and adolescents, life-
style management, also taught through 
DSMES, is foundational, and pharmaco-
logic treatment with or without insulin is 
necessary. For children and adolescents 
with obesity and diabetes, it should be 
noted that diabetes type is often uncer-
tain in the first few weeks of treatment 
due to overlap in presentation and that 
a substantial percentage will present 
with clinically significant ketoacidosis 
(22). Therefore, initial therapy should 
address the hyperglycemia and associ-
ated metabolic derangements irrespec-
tive of ultimate diabetes type, with 
adjustment of therapy once metabolic 
compensation has been established and 
subsequent information, such as islet 
autoantibody results, becomes avail-
able. Figure 14.1 provides an approach 
to the initial treatment of new-onset 
diabetes in children and adolescents 
with overweight or obesity with clinical 
suspicion of type 2 diabetes.
Nutrition Therapy
Nutrition management for all types of 
diabetes in children and adolescents 
should be individualized and needs to 
consider family habits, food preferen-
ces, religious or cultural needs, finances, 
schedules, physical activity, and the indi-
vidual’s and family’s abilities in numeracy, 
literacy, and self-management strategies. 
Routine visits with a registered dietitian 
nutritionist, preferably experienced in 
working with pediatric populations with 
diabetes, are recommended and should 
include assessment for changes in food 
preferences over time, access to food, 
growth and development, weight status, 
cardiovascular risk, and potential for dis-
ordered eating.
Consuming an evidence-based eating 
pattern is associated with better glyce-
mic outcomes in children and adoles-
cents with type 1 and type 2 diabetes 
(23–25), although the evidence in type 2 
diabetes is less robust. Education on 
healthy, culturally aligned eating should 
be provided for all children and adoles-
cents with diabetes and their families. 
For children and adolescents taking meal-
time insulin, carbohydrate content is the 
primary variable for calculation of meal-
time insulin doses. Meals with higher fat 
and protein content, however, can cause 
early hypoglycemia and delayed postpran-
dial hyperglycemia. Some adjustments in 
insulin dosing, including a split dose or an 
increase in calculated dose or use of an 
extended bolus feature when available to 
account for proteins and fats, can im-
prove postprandial glucose management 
(26,27). Additionally, considering that car-
bohydrate counting in pregnant adults 
with type 1 diabetes has been reported 
to aid in weight management, as it con-
tributes to portion management, so it is 
reasonable to consider it as a useful tool 
for both glycemic and weight manage-
ment in children and adolescents (28).
Given the complex social and environ-
mental context surrounding children and 
adolescents with prediabetes and diabe-
tes, individual-level lifestyle interventions 
may not be sufficient to address the 
multifaceted interplay of family dynamics, 
behavioral health, community readiness, 
and the broader environmental system 
(3). In these cases, referrals to members 
of the care team with expertise in behav-
ioral health and social work might be 
beneficial where available.
Recommendations
14.2 Provide individualized medical 
nutrition therapy for children and 
adolescents with prediabetes or diabe-
tes, emphasizing key nutrition princi-
ples (i.e., more nonstarchy vegetables, 
whole fruits, legumes, whole grains, 
nuts and seeds, and low-fat dairy prod-
ucts and less sugar-sweetened bever-
ages, sweets, meat, refined grains, and 
processed or ultraprocessed foods), B 
as an essential component of the over-
all treatment plan.
14.3 Monitor carbohydrate intake, 
whether by carbohydrate counting 
or experience-based estimation, as 
a key component to optimizing glyce-
mic and weight management for chil-
dren and adolescents with diabetes. B
14.4 Educate children and adolescents 
and their caregivers on the potential 
need to adjust insulin with high-fat 
and high-protein meals. Meal com-
position affects postprandial glucose 
excursions. A
14.5 In children and adolescents with 
diabetes, provide comprehensive nu-
trition education at diagnosis, and at 
least annually and ideally more fre-
quently, by an experienced registered 
dietitian nutritionist to assess the eat-
ing pattern in relation to weight sta-
tus, age-appropriate growth, risk for 
disordered eating behaviors, and car-
diovascular disease risk factors. E
Physical Activity and Exercise
Recommendations
14.6 Physical activity is recommended 
for all children and adolescents with 
diabetes with the goal of 60 min of 
moderate- to vigorous-intensity aero-
bic activity daily, with vigorous muscle- 
strengthening and bone-strengthening 
activities at least 3 days per week. B
14.7 Children and adolescents with 
diabetes using insulin therapy and 
their parents should monitor glucose 
levels before, during, and after phys-
ical activity and receive education 
about personalized glycemic goals 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S299 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Like for all children and adolescents, 
physical activity and structured exercise 
positively impact metabolic and psycho-
logical health in children with type 1 dia-
betes (23,29–31), prediabetes, and type 2 
diabetes (25,32–34). Exercise can have 
positive effects on insulin sensitivity, 
strength, cardiorespiratory fitness, weight 
management, social interaction, mood, 
self-esteem building, and perhaps most 
importantly, the creation of healthful 
habits for adulthood. However, for chil-
dren and adolescents using insulin, ex-
ercise also has the potential to cause 
both hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia, 
so providing education on those effects 
is warranted.
For new-onset diabetes in children and adolescents with overweight or obesity with clinical suspicion
of type 2 diabetes, initiate lifestyle management and diabetes education
 
• Metformin
 ◦Titrate up to 2,000 mg per day as 
tolerated
• Long-acting insulin: start at 0.5 units/kg/day 
• Manage DKA or HHS
• Intravenous insulin until acidosis 
resolves, then subcutaneous, as for type 1
diabetes until results of antibody are 
testing known
Pancreatic autoantibodies
NEGATIVE
A1C goals not met
• Continue or start metformin
• If on insulin, titrate guided by glucose
values
• Continue or initiate MDI insulin or pump 
therapy, as for type 1 diabetes
• Consider discontinuing metformin
• Continue metformin
• Consider adding GLP-1 receptor agonist or SGLT2 inhibitor 
approved for youth with type 2 diabetes
• Consider prioritizing and maximizing noninsulin medications to 
minimize weight gain before escalating insulin doses
• Titrate or initiate insulin therapy; if using long-acting insulin only 
and glycemic goal is not met with escalating doses, add prandial
insulin; total daily insulin dose may exceed 1 unit/kg/day
POSITIVE
• Metformin
A1C <8.5%
No acidosis or ketosis
A1C ≥8.5%
No acidosis with or without ketosis
Acidosis and/or DKA and/or HHS
 ◦Titrate up to 2,000 mg per day as
tolerated
and titrate every 2–3 days based on BGM
Figure 14.1—Management of new-onset diabetes in youth with overweight or obesity with clinical suspicion of type 2 diabetes. A1C 8.5% = 69 mmol/mol. 
BGM, blood glucose monitoring; CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; DKA, diabetic ketoacidosis; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; HHS, hyperosmolar 
hyperglycemic state; MDI, multiple daily injections; SGLT2, sodium–glucose cotransporter 2. Adapted from the ADA position statement “Evaluation 
and Management of Youth-Onset Type 2 Diabetes” (3). 
See below for strategies to mitigate hy-
poglycemia risk and minimize hyperglyce-
mia associated with exercise in children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes or 
those using insulin. For an in-depth dis-
cussion, see previously published reviews 
and guidelines (35–37).
Overall, it is recommended that all chil-
dren and adolescents, including those with 
prediabetes and diabetes, should partici-
pate in 60 min of moderate-intensity (e.g., 
brisk walking, dancing) to vigorous-intensity 
(e.g., running, jumping rope, soccer) aer-
obic activity daily, including resistance 
and flexibility training (34). Although 
uncommon in the pediatric population, 
they should be evaluated for comorbid 
conditions or diabetes complications that 
may restrict participation in an exercise 
program.
according to the type and intensity 
of the planned physical activity. C
14.8 Children and adolescents with di-
abetes and their parents or caregivers 
should be educated on strategies to 
prevent hypoglycemia during, after, and 
overnight following physical activity 
or exercise. Treatment for hypoglyce-
mia should be accessible before, dur-
ing, and after engaging in activity. C
School and Child Care
As the majority of waking hours for most 
children and adolescents can be spent in 
school and/or daycare, training of school 
or daycare personnel as well as athletic 
coaches to provide care in accordance 
with the individualized diabetes medical 
management plan is essential for optimal 
diabetes management and safe access to 
all school- or daycare-sponsored opportu-
nities (38–40). This is of particular impor-
tance for those children and adolescents 
who require insulin. In addition, federal 
and state laws require schools, daycare 
facilities, and other entities to provide 
needed diabetes care to enable the child 
S300 
Children and Adolescents
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

to safely access the school or daycare en-
vironment. Refer to the ADA position 
statements “Diabetes Care in the School 
Setting” (38) and “Care of Young Children 
with Diabetes in the Childcare and Com-
munity Setting” (40) and the ADA’s Safe 
at School website (diabetes.org/resources/ 
know-your-rights/safe-at-school-state-laws) 
for additional details.
Psychosocial Care
Recommendations
14.9 At diagnosis and during routine 
follow-up care, screen children and 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes, B 
type 2 diabetes, B and other forms 
of diabetes E for psychosocial con-
cerns (e.g., diabetes distress, depres-
sive symptoms, anxiety, disordered 
eating behaviors), family factors, and 
behavioral health concerns that could 
affect diabetes management with age- 
appropriate standardized and validated 
tools. Refer to a qualified behavioral 
health professional, preferably expe-
rienced in childhood diabetes, when 
indicated.
14.10 Behavioral health professionals 
should be considered integral mem-
bers of the pediatric diabetes inter-
professional team. E
14.11 Encourage developmentally ap-
propriate family involvement in dia-
betes management tasks for children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, 
type 2 diabetes, B and other forms 
of diabetes, E recognizing that prema-
ture or unsupportive transfer of diabe-
tes care responsibility to children and 
adolescents can contribute to diabetes 
distress, lower engagement in diabetes 
self-management behaviors, and dete-
rioration in glycemia.
14.12 Health care professionals should 
screen for food insecurity, housing sta-
bility, health literacy, financial barriers, 
and social or community support and 
apply that information to treatment 
decisions. E
14.13 Health care professionals should 
consider asking school-aged children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes, 
B type 2 diabetes, E and other forms 
of diabetes, E along with their parents 
or caregivers, about social adjustment 
(peer relationships) and school perfor-
mance to determine whether further 
intervention is needed.
14.14 Offer adolescents with diabetes 
time by themselves with their health 
care professional(s) at a developmen-
tally appropriate age. E
14.15 During adolescence, generally 
during the stage of pubertal growth 
and development, incorporate re-
productive health and preconcep-
tion counseling into routine diabetes 
clinic visits for all individuals of child-
bearing potential because of the risk 
of adverse pregnancy outcomes in 
this population. A
Rapid and dynamic cognitive, develop-
mental, and emotional changes occur dur-
ing childhood, adolescence, and emerging 
adulthood. Diabetes management places 
substantial burdens on the child, adoles-
cent, and family, necessitating ongoing 
assessment of psychosocial status and 
social determinants of health during 
routine diabetes visits (41,42). Consider 
the impact of diabetes on quality of life 
as well as the development of behav-
ioral health problems related to diabe-
tes distress, symptoms of depression, 
symptoms of anxiety, fear of hypogly-
cemia and hyperglycemia, disordered 
eating behaviors, and eating disorders 
(41,43). Further, consideration of the 
sociocultural context and efforts to 
personalize diabetes management are 
of critical importance to minimize bar-
riers to care, enhance participation, 
and maximize response to treatment. 
Screening for food insecurity, housing insta-
bility, and other barriers related to the so-
cial determinants of health should be part 
of routine pediatric diabetes care (44).
Children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and other forms 
of diabetes experience high rates of diabe-
tes distress, depression, anxiety disorders, 
disordered eating behaviors, and eating 
disorders (45–50). For this reason, routine 
psychosocial screening is recommended 
for children and adolescents with type 1, 
type 2, and other forms of diabetes. Diabe-
tes distress is the emotional response to 
living with and managing a demanding 
chronic condition. Approximately 30% of 
children and adolescents with type 1 dia-
betes (45) and 24% of children and adoles-
cents with type 2 diabetes (51) report 
clinically significant levels of diabetes 
distress. Screening for diabetes distress 
may begin as early as 7 or 8 years of 
age (43), using validated tools for 
children, adolescents, and their parents or 
caregivers (52). The pooled prevalence of 
depression is 22.2% in children and adoles-
cents with type 1 and type 2 diabetes (53). 
This high rate highlights the importance of 
routine depression screening in this popu-
lation, beginning at age 12 years and con-
tinuing thereafter (54), particularly when 
treatment goals are not being met or 
when there are significant changes in 
medical status or life circumstances. The 
pooled prevalence of anxiety is 17.7% in 
children and adolescents with type 1 and 
type 2 diabetes (53), supporting routine 
screening for anxiety in children and ado-
lescents aged 8 years and above (54). For 
children and adolescents experiencing se-
vere and/or frequent hypoglycemia as 
well as substantial hyperglycemia, it is im-
portant to screen both their parents or 
caregivers and the individual with diabe-
tes for fear of hypoglycemia (55). Children 
as young as 6 years old can provide reli-
able self-reports for fear of hypoglycemia 
(55). Lastly, screening for disordered eating 
behaviors is recommended when signs 
and symptoms (e.g., unexplained weight 
loss, hyperglycemia, and DKA) and/or 
behavioral and emotional indicators 
(e.g., secrecy around eating and excessive 
concern about weight) are present using 
validated screening tools (56). Children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes are 
at increased risk for disordered eating be-
haviors and clinical eating disorders, which 
can lead to serious short- and long-term 
complications affecting diabetes outcomes 
and overall health. A particularly danger-
ous behavior in this population is insu-
lin omission for weight loss (57). In the 
SEARCH study, disordered eating be-
haviors and insulin omission were also 
common among adolescents and young 
adults with type 2 diabetes, with 50.3% re-
porting disordered eating behaviors and 
23% reporting insulin omission (58).
Given the complexity of psychosocial 
concerns in the management of diabetes 
in children and adolescents, collaboration 
between the diabetes health care team 
and a behavioral health professional is rec-
ommended. Early detection of diabetes 
distress, depression, anxiety, fear of hypo-
glycemia, and disordered eating behaviors 
can facilitate effective treatment options 
and help minimize adverse effects on dia-
betes management and health outcomes 
(41,43). When psychological symptoms are 
identified, referral to a behavioral health 
professional, ideally with experience in 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S301 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

pediatric diabetes, may be warranted. 
Such professionals can provide individu-
alized, evidence-based behavioral health 
care services, including cognitive-behavioral 
therapy, mindfulness-based approaches, 
and other interventions, to improve psy-
chosocial functioning in children and ado-
lescents with diabetes (59–61).
The complexities of diabetes manage-
ment require ongoing caregiver involve-
ment in care throughout childhood and 
adolescence. Developmentally appropri-
ate, supportive family teamwork between 
the growing child or adolescent and their 
parent(s) can help increase parent in-
volvement in diabetes management and 
maintain or improve A1C in children and 
adolescents with A1C ≥8.0% (62). It is 
appropriate to inquire about diabetes- 
specific family relationships, including fam-
ily teamwork and conflict, during visits; 
health care professionals can both help 
families negotiate a plan and refer to an 
appropriate behavioral health professional 
for more in-depth support (63). Such pro-
fessionals can conduct further assessments 
and deliver evidence-based behavioral in-
terventions to support developmentally 
appropriate, collaborative family involve-
ment in diabetes self-management (64,65). 
Monitoring of social adjustment (peer re-
lationships) and school performance can 
facilitate both well-being and academic 
achievement (66,67). Diabetes manage-
ment and glycemic levels may be associ-
ated with and impact academic progress 
and students’ functioning in the school set-
ting, which highlights the need for appro-
priate accommodations and access to 
diabetes-related support in school (68).
Decision-making involvement with chil-
dren and adolescents regarding the adop-
tion of management plan components 
can improve participation in diabetes self- 
management, technology adoption, and 
glycemic outcomes (69,70). Use of well- 
designed decision aids can engage chil-
dren and adolescents in comprehensive, 
unbiased conversations with their diabe-
tes care team about treatment options 
(71). Creating self-care contracts (72) and 
integrating technology that shares glucose 
data with the care team may facilitate 
shared decision-making and enhance care 
(73). Importantly, health care professionals 
working with children and adolescents who 
are not yet able to provide legal consent 
must balance clinical oversight with pro-
moting developmentally appropriate in-
dependence. Recommendations include 
providing education tailored to the de-
velopmental stage, encouraging gradual 
transfer of responsibility with self-care, 
guiding parental involvement as respon-
sibilities change, teaching self-advocacy 
to prepare for transitions in care, and in-
corporating psychosocial support at all 
stages (67,74). Although cognitive abilities 
vary, the ethical position often adopted is 
the “mature minor rule,” whereby chil-
dren after age 12 or 13 years who can 
make an informed decision have the right 
to consent or withhold consent to gen-
eral medical treatment, except in cases in 
which refusal would significantly endanger 
health (75). Importantly, not all children 
aged 12 or 13 years will be cognitively or 
emotionally prepared for transfer of daily 
self-care responsibilities. In these cases, 
emphasize assent to help ensure they 
are engaged in decision-making and to en-
courage them to take an active role in their 
self-management alongside caregivers.
Beginning at the onset of puberty or at 
diagnosis of diabetes for pubertal and 
postpubertal children and adolescents, all 
individuals with childbearing potential 
should receive education about the ef-
fective use of contraception to prevent 
unplanned pregnancy, as risks of fetal 
malformations are associated with ele-
vated A1C. The TODAY study documented 
high rates of maternal complications dur-
ing pregnancy and low rates of precon-
ception counseling and contraception use 
in adolescents and young adults with type 2 
diabetes (76). Preconception counseling 
using developmentally appropriate edu-
cational and behavioral strategies enables 
individuals of childbearing potential to 
make well-informed decisions (77). Pre-
conception counseling resources tailored 
for adolescents are available at no cost 
through the ADA (78). Refer to the ADA 
position statement “Psychosocial Care for 
People With Diabetes” for further details 
(43).
The presence of behavioral health pro-
fessionals on pediatric interprofessional 
teams emphasizes the importance of psy-
chosocial care. These psychosocial factors 
are significantly related to self-management 
difficulties, elevated A1C, reduced quality 
of life, and higher rates of acute and 
chronic diabetes complications. A proac-
tive, team-based approach to psychoso-
cial screening, referral, and intervention 
is essential to support the health of chil-
dren and adolescents with diabetes.
Glycemic Monitoring, Insulin 
Delivery, and Goals
Recommendations
14.16 Continuous glucose monitoring 
(CGM) should be offered for diabetes 
management at diagnosis or as soon 
as possible in children and adolescents 
with diabetes who are capable of us-
ing the device safely (either by them-
selves or with caregivers). A The choice 
of device should be made based on 
the individual’s and family’s circumstan-
ces, desires, and needs.
14.17 Offer automated insulin deliv-
ery (AID) systems for diabetes man-
agement to children and adolescents 
with type 1 diabetes who are capable 
of using the device safely (either by 
themselves or with caregivers). Choice 
of device should be made based on 
the individual’s and family’s circum-
stances, desires, and needs. A
14.18 Offer open-loop insulin pump 
therapy for type 1 diabetes manage-
ment to children and adolescents on 
multiple daily injections who are capa-
ble of using the device safely (either 
by themselves or with caregivers) if 
unable to use AID systems. Choice of 
device should be made based on the 
individual’s and family’s circumstances, 
desires, and needs. A
14.19 Students with diabetes must 
be supported at school in the use of 
diabetes technology, including CGM, 
insulin pumps, connected insulin pens, 
and AID systems, as prescribed by 
their diabetes care team. C
14.20 A1C goals must be individual-
ized and reassessed over time. An 
A1C of <7% (<53 mmol/mol) is ap-
propriate for most children and ado-
lescents with diabetes. B
14.21 Less stringent A1C goals (such 
as <7% [<53 mmol/mol] or <7.5% 
[<58 mmol/mol]) may be appropriate 
for children and adolescents with dia-
betes who cannot articulate symptoms 
of hypoglycemia; have hypoglycemia 
unawareness; cannot access advanced 
insulin delivery technology and/or CGM; 
cannot check blood glucose regularly; 
or have nonglycemic factors that in-
crease A1C. B
14.22 Even less stringent A1C goals 
may be appropriate for children and 
adolescents with diabetes and a his-
tory of severe hypoglycemia or limited 
life expectancy or where the harms of 
S302 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Current standards for diabetes manage-
ment reflect the need to minimize hy-
perglycemia as safely as possible. The 
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial 
(DCCT) (79), which did not enroll children 
<13 years of age, demonstrated that 
near normalization of blood glucose lev-
els was more difficult to achieve in ado-
lescents than in adults. Nevertheless, 
the increased use of continuous glucose 
monitoring (CGM) and AID systems, goal 
setting, and improved education have 
been associated with more children and 
adolescents reaching the blood glucose 
goals recommended by the ADA (80–82), 
particularly in families in which the 
parents or caregivers as well as the 
child or adolescent with diabetes par-
ticipate jointly to perform the required 
diabetes-related tasks.
treatment are greater than the bene-
fits. B
14.23 Health care professionals may 
reasonably suggest more stringent A1C 
goals (such as <6.5% [<48 mmol/mol]) 
for selected children and adolescents 
with diabetes if they can be achieved 
without significant hypoglycemia, ex-
cessive weight gain, negative impacts 
on well-being or mental health, or 
undue burden of care or in those 
who have nonglycemic factors that 
decrease A1C (e.g., lower erythrocyte 
life span). Lower goals may also be 
appropriate during the honeymoon 
phase. B
14.24 For children and adolescents 
with diabetes, CGM metrics derived 
from CGM use over the most recent 
14 days (or longer) are recommended 
to be used in conjunction with or 
without A1C whenever possible. B
TYPE 1 DIABETES IN CHILDREN 
AND ADOLESCENTS
Lower A1C in adolescence and young adult-
hood is associated with a lower risk and 
rate of microvascular and macrovascular 
complications (83–85) and demonstrates 
the effects of metabolic memory (86–89). 
While an A1C goal of <7% (<53 mmol/mol) 
is appropriate for most children and ado-
lescents with type 1 diabetes, as AID algo-
rithms continue to improve and access to 
these systems expands, children and ado-
lescents who can attain a goal of <6.5% 
(<48 mmol/mol) without adverse effects 
should be encouraged to do so. In 
addition, achieving lower A1C levels is 
likely facilitated by setting lower A1C 
goals (80,90). Lower goals may be possible 
during the honeymoon phase of type 1 
diabetes and in those with access to CGM 
and AID. The honeymoon phase, also re-
ferred to as partial remission, refers to a 
transient period of increased endoge-
nous insulin secretion shortly after diag-
nosis when initiation of insulin therapy 
resolves glucotoxicity and allows for im-
proved insulin secretion from residual 
β-cells. Recent data with newer devices 
indicate that the risk of hypoglycemia at 
lower A1C is less than it was before 
(81,82,91–94). However, special consider-
ation should be given to the risk of hypo-
glycemia in young children (aged <6 years) 
who are often unable to recognize, articu-
late, and/or manage hypoglycemia. Regis-
try data indicate that lower A1C goals can 
be achieved in children, including those 
aged <6 years, without increased risk of 
severe hypoglycemia (91). Please refer to 
section 6, “Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, 
and Hyperglycemic Crisis,” for more infor-
mation on glycemic assessment.
A strong relationship exists between 
the frequency of glucose monitoring and 
glycemic outcomes (95,96). Glucose lev-
els for all children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes should be monitored mul-
tiple times daily using CGM whenever 
possible. For those who cannot access 
CGM and in case of inaccurate CGM read-
ings, access to finger-stick blood glucose 
monitoring remains essential. Use of CGM 
soon after type 1 diabetes diagnosis is 
associated with improved A1C (97–99). 
Parents, caregivers, and children and ado-
lescents should be offered initial and on-
going education and support for CGM 
use. Behavioral support may further im-
prove ongoing CGM use (100). Metrics 
derived from CGM include percent time 
in range (TIR), time below target range 
(<70 mg/dL and <54 mg/dL), and time 
above target range (>180 mg/dL and 
>250 mg/dL) (101). While studies indi-
cate a relationship between TIR and A1C 
(102,103), it is still uncertain what the 
ideal goal TIR should be for children, and 
further studies are needed. Though 14 days 
of CGM data has long been considered the 
gold standard, recent data indicate that 
10 or more days of CGM data provides a 
reliable assessment of glycemia and that 
≥7 days of data may be sufficient for 
children and adolescents attaining TIR 
goals (104,105). Please refer to section 7, 
“Diabetes Technology,” for more informa-
tion on the use of blood glucose meters, 
CGM, and insulin pumps. More informa-
tion on insulin injection technique can 
be found in section 9, “Pharmacologic 
Approaches to Glycemic Treatment.”
In addition, type 1 diabetes and chronic 
hyperglycemia are associated with adverse 
effects on cognition during childhood and 
adolescence (7,106,107). Several factors, 
including young age, severe hypoglycemia 
at <6 years of age, DKA, and chronic hy-
perglycemia (106,108,109), may contribute 
to adverse effects on brain development 
and function. Attaining higher CGM TIR is 
associated with better structural brain 
development and better neurocognitive 
outcomes (108), further emphasizing the 
importance of achieving glycemic goals 
(7,108).
Key Concepts in Setting Glycemic Goals
• Glycemic goals should be individualized, 
and lower goals may be reasonable 
based on a benefit-risk assessment.
• Blood glucose goals should be modi-
fied in children with frequent hypogly-
cemia or hypoglycemia unawareness.
Exercise Needs Specific to Children 
and Adolescents With Type 1 
Diabetes
Real-world data from the Type 1 Diabetes 
Exercise Initiative Pediatric (T1DEXIP) study 
reported that glucose levels tended to 
drop during exercise, most particularly in 
those with lower A1C, shorter diabetes 
duration, and less fear of hypoglycemia 
(110). Furthermore, glucose levels tended 
to be lowest at about 8–16 h postexercise 
in those with similar characteristics, and 
nocturnal hypoglycemia was more fre-
quent when activity levels were higher 
and longer in duration (111). These data 
underscore the need for individualized 
management strategies for children and 
adolescents using insulin, including com-
mon sense precautions and understanding 
how to make insulin dose adjustments 
when undertaking exercise and physical ac-
tivity. Accessible rapid-acting carbohydrates 
and frequent blood glucose monitoring 
before, during, and after exercise, with or 
without CGM maximize safety with exer-
cise. As hyperglycemia can occur before, 
during, and after physical activity, it is im-
portant to ensure the elevated glucose 
level is not related to insulin deficiency, 
as that can lead to worsening hyperglyce-
mia with exercise and DKA risk. Intense 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S303 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

activity should be postponed with marked 
hyperglycemia (glucose ≥350 mg/dL 
[≥19.4 mmol/L]), moderate to large 
urine ketones, and/or β-hydroxybutyrate 
>1.5 mmol/L in the setting of insulin de-
ficiency. Caution may be needed when 
β-hydroxybutyrate levels are ≥0.6 mmol/L 
in association with absence of insulin 
(112,113).
Prevention and treatment of hypogly-
cemia associated with physical activity in-
cludes decreasing prandial insulin for the 
meal or snack before and after exercise, 
and/or increasing carbohydrate intake. Chil-
dren and adolescents using insulin pumps 
without automated insulin delivery (AID) 
can lower basal rates by ∼10–50% or more 
or suspend for 1–2 h during exercise (111). 
Decreasing basal rates or long-acting insulin 
doses by ∼20% after exercise may reduce 
delayed exercise-induced hypoglycemia 
(110). Using AID systems may improve 
TIR (70–180 mg/dL) during exercise, and 
children and adolescents can use device- 
specific settings that are more conservative 
or increase the glucose goal to prevent hy-
poglycemia with exercise (114).
Blood glucose goals prior to physical 
activity and exercise are 126–180 mg/dL 
(7.0–10.0 mmol/L) but should be individ-
ualized based on the insulin plan and 
type, intensity, and duration of activity 
(36,115). The accuracy of CGM systems 
varies depending on the type of exercise 
(116). Consider additional carbohydrate 
intake during and/or after exercise, depend-
ing on duration and intensity of physical 
activity, to prevent hypoglycemia. For low- 
to moderate-intensity aerobic activities 
(30–60 min), and if the child or adolescent 
is fasting, 10–15 g of carbohydrate may 
prevent hypoglycemia (36). The timing of 
carbohydrate intake before exercise is of 
great importance for children and adoles-
cents using AID systems, as a rise in glu-
cose may result in increased automated 
insulin delivery with a subsequent increase 
in the risk for hypoglycemia (113). After in-
sulin boluses (relative hyperinsulinemia), 
consider 0.5–1.0 g of carbohydrates/kg 
per h of exercise (∼30–60 g), similar to car-
bohydrate requirements for optimizing 
performance in athletes without type 1 
diabetes (117,118).
For children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes and obesity, physical activity is a 
key component of diabetes care. Obesity is 
equally common in children and adoles-
cents with or without type 1 diabetes. 
Living with obesity is associated with a 
higher frequency of cardiovascular risk 
factors, and it disproportionately affects 
children and adolescents from racial and 
ethnic minoritized groups (e.g., Black 
and Latino children and adolescents) 
(9,119). Therefore, diabetes health care 
professionals should monitor weight sta-
tus and encourage a healthy eating pat-
tern, physical activity, and healthy weight 
as key components of pediatric type 1 di-
abetes care.
TYPE 2 DIABETES IN CHILDREN 
AND ADOLESCENTS
For information on risk-based screening for 
type 2 diabetes and prediabetes in children 
and adolescents, please refer to section 2, 
“Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes.” 
For additional support for these recom-
mendations, see the ADA position state-
ment “Evaluation and Management of 
Youth-Onset Type 2 Diabetes” (3).
Screening and Diagnosis of Type 2 
Diabetes in Children and Adolescents
In recent years, incidence and preva-
lence of type 2 diabetes in children and 
adolescents have increased dramatically, 
especially in historically marginalized com-
munities (120). A few studies suggest oral 
glucose tolerance tests or fasting plasma 
glucose values as more suitable diagnostic 
tests than A1C in the pediatric popula-
tion, especially among certain ethnicities 
(121), while fasting glucose alone may 
overdiagnose diabetes in children and ado-
lescents (122,123). In addition, many stud-
ies that compare A1C to fasting plasma 
glucose or oral glucose tolerance test do 
not consider that diabetes diagnostic cri-
teria are based on long-term health 
outcomes, and validations are not cur-
rently available in the pediatric popu-
lation (124). An analysis of National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES) data suggests using A1C for 
screening of high-risk children and ado-
lescents due to association with cardio-
metabolic risk (125). While the ADA 
acknowledges there are limitations in 
the data supporting A1C for diagnosing 
type 2 diabetes in children and adoles-
cents, the ADA continues to recommend 
its use in this population (121). A1C is 
not recommended for diagnosis of dia-
betes in children and adolescents with 
cystic fibrosis or symptoms suggestive of 
acute onset of type 1 diabetes, and only 
A1C assays without interference are ap-
propriate for children and adolescents 
with hemoglobinopathies.
Recommendations
14.25 Consider risk-based screening 
for prediabetes and/or type 2 diabe-
tes after the onset of puberty or af-
ter 10 years of age, whichever occurs 
earlier, in children with overweight 
(BMI ≥85th to <95th percentile) or 
obesity (BMI ≥95th percentile) and 
who have one or more additional risk 
factor for diabetes (see Table 2.5 for 
evidence grading of other risk factors).
14.26 If screening is normal, repeat 
screening at a minimum of 2-year in-
tervals E or more frequently if BMI is 
increasing. C
14.27 Fasting plasma glucose, 2-h 
plasma glucose during a 75-g oral 
glucose tolerance test, elevated ran-
dom glucose with symptoms of hy-
perglycemia, and/or A1C can be used 
to test for prediabetes or type 2 dia-
betes in children and adolescents. B
14.28 Children and adolescents with 
overweight or obesity with hyperglyce-
mia in whom the diagnosis of type 2 
diabetes is being considered should 
have a panel of pancreatic autoanti-
bodies tested to exclude the possibil-
ity of autoimmune type 1 diabetes. B
Diagnostic Challenges: Overlap of 
Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes
Given the current obesity epidemic, dis-
tinguishing between type 1 and type 2 
diabetes in children can be difficult. 
Overweight and obesity are common in 
children with type 1 diabetes (126), and 
diabetes-associated autoantibodies and 
ketosis may be present in pediatric indi-
viduals with clinical features of type 2 
diabetes (including obesity and acantho-
sis nigricans) (122). The presence of islet 
autoantibodies has been associated with 
faster progression to insulin deficiency 
(122). At the onset of diabetes, DKA occurs 
in ∼11% of children and adolescents aged 
10–19 years with type 2 diabetes (127). 
Although uncommon, type 2 diabetes 
has been observed in prepubertal chil-
dren under the age of 10 years, thus it 
should be part of the differential in chil-
dren with suggestive symptoms (128). 
Finally, obesity contributes to the de-
velopment of type 1 diabetes in some 
individuals (129), which further blurs 
S304 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

the lines between diabetes types. We 
must acknowledge that people with 
type 1 diabetes can also experience weight 
gain and insulin resistance. However, 
accurate diagnosis is critical, as treat-
ment plans, educational approaches, 
nutrition advice, and outcomes differ 
markedly between individuals with pre-
dominantly insulin resistance versus 
absolute insulinopenia phenotypes. It 
must also be acknowledged that overlap 
between type 1 and type 2 diabetes can 
exist, and both insulin resistance and ab-
solute insulinopenia should be treated ap-
propriately (130). The significant diagnostic 
difficulties posed by maturity-onset diabe-
tes of the young are discussed in section 2, 
“Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes.” 
In addition, there are rare and atypical dia-
betes cases that represent a challenge for 
clinicians and researchers.
Management
Lifestyle Management
Recommendations
14.29 Provide children and adoles-
cents with overweight or obesity and 
type 2 diabetes and their families 
with developmentally and culturally 
appropriate comprehensive lifestyle 
programs integrated with diabetes 
management to achieve at least a 
7–10% decrease in excess weight. B
14.30 Given the necessity of long- 
term weight management for chil-
dren and adolescents with diabetes, 
lifestyle intervention should be based 
on a chronic care model and offered 
in the context of diabetes care. E
Glycemic Goals
Recommendations
14.31 For children and adolescents 
with type 2 diabetes, glycemic status 
should be assessed at least every 
3 months or as frequently as clinically 
indicated. E
14.32 Consider setting an A1C goal 
of <6.5% (<48 mmol/mol) for most 
children and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes who have a low risk of hy-
poglycemia. For those at higher risk 
of hypoglycemia, A1C goals should 
be individualized as clinically ap-
propriate. C
Exercise Needs Specific to Children 
and Adolescents With Type 2 
Diabetes
Children and adolescents with type 2 dia-
betes and their families should receive 
education and support for physical activ-
ity, including achieving and maintaining a 
healthy weight (34). Family-based inter-
ventions have been reported to be effec-
tive on physical activity behavior (25,131). 
A family-centered approach to lifestyle 
modification, including those aspects fo-
cused on physical activity, is essential in 
children and adolescents with type 2 dia-
betes, and recommendations should be 
culturally appropriate and sensitive to fam-
ily resources (see section 5, “Facilitating 
Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being 
to Improve Health Outcomes”).
Pharmacologic Management
Recommendations
14.33 Initiate pharmacologic therapy 
with consideration of multiple add-on 
therapies early on, in addition to be-
havioral counseling for healthful nu-
trition and physical activity changes, 
at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. A
14.34 In individuals with incidentally 
diagnosed type 2 diabetes (A1C <8.5% 
[<69 mmol/mol] and asymptomatic), 
metformin is the initial pharmacologic 
treatment of choice unless contraindi-
cated by kidney function. A
14.35 Children and adolescents with 
marked hyperglycemia (A1C ≥8.5% 
[≥69 mmol/mol]) without acidosis at 
diagnosis should be treated initially 
with long-acting insulin while metfor-
min is initiated and titrated. B
14.36 Initiate subcutaneous or intrave-
nous insulin treatment in individuals 
with ketoacidosis to rapidly correct 
the hyperglycemia and the metabolic 
derangement. Once acidosis is re-
solved, metformin should be initiated 
while subcutaneous insulin therapy is 
continued. A
14.37 In individuals presenting with 
severe hyperglycemia (blood glucose 
≥600 mg/dL [≥33.3 mmol/L]), consider 
assessment and treatment as needed 
for hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state. A
14.38 If individualized glycemic goals 
are not achieved or maintained with 
metformin (with or without long-acting 
insulin), glucagon-like peptide 1 re-
ceptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) and/or so-
dium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor 
(SGLT2i) should be considered in chil-
dren and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes of approved ages. A
14.39 For children and adolescents 
with type 2 diabetes not meeting in-
dividualized glycemic goals, consider 
maximizing noninsulin therapies (met-
formin, GLP-1 RA, and SGLT2i) before 
initiating and/or intensifying the insu-
lin therapy plan. E
14.40 In individuals with type 2 dia-
betes initially treated with insulin 
and metformin and/or other glucose- 
lowering medications who are meeting 
glucose goals based on blood glucose 
monitoring or CGM, reducing or dis-
continuing insulin should be consid-
ered. B
Glycemic goals should be individualized, 
taking into consideration the long-term 
health benefits of more stringent goals 
and risk for adverse effects, such as hy-
poglycemia. A lower A1C goal of <6.5% 
in children and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes compared with <7% recom-
mended in type 1 diabetes is justified 
by a lower risk of hypoglycemia and 
higher risk of complications in children 
and adolescents with type 2 diabetes 
(13,132–136). Blood glucose monitoring 
plans should be individualized, taking 
into consideration the pharmacologic 
treatment of the person. Although 
data on CGM in children and adoles-
cents with type 2 diabetes are sparse 
(137,138), CGM could be considered 
in individuals requiring frequent blood 
glucose monitoring for diabetes man-
agement as well as for those on insulin 
who are capable of using the device 
safely (either by themselves or with 
caregivers).
Current pharmacologic treatment op-
tions for children and adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes are limited to four ap-
proved drug classes: insulin, metformin, 
glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor 
agonists, and sodium–glucose cotrans-
porter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2is). Presenta-
tion with ketoacidosis or marked ketosis 
requires a period of insulin therapy until 
fasting and postprandial glycemia have 
been restored to normal or near-normal 
levels. Insulin pump therapy should be 
considered for those on long-term multiple 
daily injections who are able to safely man-
age the device. Initial treatment should 
also be with insulin when the distinction 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S305 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

between type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabe-
tes is unclear and in individuals who have 
random blood glucose concentrations 
≥250 mg/dL (≥13.9 mmol/L) and/or A1C 
≥8.5% (≥69 mmol/mol) (139). Metformin 
therapy should be added after resolution 
of ketosis or ketoacidosis.
When initial insulin treatment is not re-
quired, initiation of metformin is recom-
mended as first-line therapy. The TODAY 
study found that metformin alone pro-
vided durable glycemic management (A1C 
<8% [<64 mmol/mol] for 6 months) only 
in approximately half of the participants 
(140). The Restoring Insulin Secretion (RISE) 
Consortium study did not demonstrate dif-
ferences in measures of glucose or β-cell 
function preservation between metformin 
and insulin, but there was more weight 
gain with insulin (141).
To date, the TODAY study is the only 
trial combining lifestyle and metformin 
therapy in children and adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes; the combination did not 
perform better than metformin alone in 
achieving durable glycemic levels (139).
RCTs in children and adolescents have 
shown that GLP-1 receptor agonists are 
safe and effective for decreasing A1C 
(142–146) and promoting weight loss at 
higher doses approved for obesity (147). 
Use of GLP-1 receptor agonists can in-
crease the frequency of gastrointestinal 
side effects and should not be used in in-
dividuals with a family history of medul-
lary thyroid cancer. A recently published 
RCT of the dual glucose-dependent insulino-
tropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 receptor 
agonist tirzepatide at doses of 5 mg 
and 10 mg weekly demonstrated clini-
cally meaningful and statistically signifi-
cant improvements in both A1C and 
weight at 30 weeks in the pooled tirzepa-
tide group versus placebo with benefits 
sustained at 52 weeks (148). The most 
common adverse events were gastroin-
testinal, as seen in adult trials (148). There 
is no regulatory approval to date for pedi-
atric use of tirzepatide.
In addition to GLP-1 receptor agonists, 
SGLT2is are well-studied drugs in adults 
with type 2 diabetes, and now empagliflo-
zin, dapagliflozin, and canagliflozin are ap-
proved for use in children and adolescents 
aged 10–17 years with type 2 diabetes 
based on clinical trials showing clinically 
relevant decreases in A1C (149–152). 
These agents are well tolerated in chil-
dren and adolescents with type 2 diabetes 
with a low risk of severe hypoglycemia and 
DKA. Individuals should be counseled on the 
increased risk of genitourinary infections.
In a multicenter double-blind, placebo- 
controlled trial of children and adoles-
cents randomized at baseline to 10 mg 
empagliflozin, 5 mg linagliptin, or pla-
cebo, there was a significant reduction in 
A1C in the empagliflozin pooled group at 
6 months (empagliflozin dose increased 
to 25 mg in a random manner in those 
with A1C ≥7% at 14 weeks) compared 
with the placebo group; the linagliptin 
group did not demonstrate A1C benefit 
versus placebo (149). In a multicenter 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 
dapagliflozin (151), children and adoles-
cents with type 2 diabetes were random-
ized at baseline to 5 mg dapagliflozin, 
2.5 mg saxagliptin, or placebo (with doses 
of dapagliflozin and saxagliptin increased 
in a random manner at week 14, namely, 
10 mg dapagliflozin or 5 mg saxagliptin in 
those with A1C ≥7%). After 6 months, 
the pooled dapagliflozin versus placebo 
group had a significant reduction in A1C 
with no significant difference between 
the saxagliptin and placebo groups. Simi-
larly, in the third SGLT2i randomized con-
trolled clinical trial (152), children and 
adolescents with type 2 diabetes were 
randomized at baseline to 100 mg cana-
gliflozin or placebo (with those in the 
canagliflozin group not achieving A1C 
<7% at week 12 further randomized to 
continue at 100 mg or increase to 300 
mg). After 6 months, the pooled cana-
gliflozin versus placebo group demon-
strated a significant reduction in A1C. In all 
three clinical trials of the SGLT2is, safety 
outcomes were assessed over 12 months 
and demonstrated safety profiles in children 
and adolescents matching those found in 
studies of adults with type 2 diabetes 
(149,151,152).
Metabolic Surgery
Recommendations
14.41 Consider metabolic surgery for 
the treatment of adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes who have class 2 obe-
sity or higher (BMI 35 to <40 kg/m2 
or 120% to <140% percentile for age 
and sex, whichever is lower) and who 
have elevated A1C and/or serious co-
morbidities despite lifestyle and phar-
macologic intervention. A
14.42 Metabolic surgery for adoles-
cents with type 2 diabetes should 
be performed only by an experienced 
surgeon working as part of a well- 
organized and engaged interprofes-
sional team, including a surgeon, 
endocrinologist, registered dietitian 
nutritionist, behavioral health spe-
cialist, and nurse. A
The results of weight loss and lifestyle in-
terventions for obesity in children and 
adolescents have been modest, and treat-
ment options as adjuncts to lifestyle ther-
apy are limited, although these findings 
do not include a more recently available 
dual GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonist. Re-
cent U.S. Food and Drug Administration–
approved medications for individuals age 
12 years and older include phentermine 
and topiramate extended-release capsules 
and GLP-1 receptor agonists (147,153–155), 
with no pediatric regulatory approval 
of the dual GIP and GLP-1 receptor ag-
onist. Metabolic surgery is now increas-
ingly performed in adolescents with 
obesity. Small retrospective analyses 
and a prospective multicenter, non-
randomized study suggest that bariat-
ric or metabolic surgery have benefits 
in adolescents with obesity and type 2 
diabetes like those observed in adults. 
Early follow-up studies indicate that 
adolescents experience similar degrees 
of weight loss compared with adults 
and even higher rates of type 2 diabe-
tes and hypertension remission (156). A 
secondary data analysis from the Teen- 
Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric 
Surgery (Teen-LABS) and TODAY studies 
suggests surgical treatment of adolescents 
with severe obesity and type 2 diabetes is 
associated with improved glycemia com-
pared with the agents used in the TODAY 
study (157); however, no randomized tri-
als have compared the effectiveness and 
safety of surgery with those of current 
treatment options in adolescents and par-
ticularly with the vertical sleeve gastrec-
tomy, which is the most widely performed 
metabolic surgery in adolescents (158). 
The guidelines used as an indication for 
metabolic surgery in adolescents generally 
include class 2 obesity or higher (BMI 35 
to <40 kg/m2 or 120% to <140% of the 
95th percentile for age and sex, which-
ever is lower), with comorbidities or 
BMI 40 kg/m2 or higher with or without 
comorbidities (159–163). A number of 
groups, including the Pediatric Bariatric 
Study Group and Teen-LABS study, have 
S306 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

demonstrated the effectiveness of meta-
bolic surgery in adolescents (159–163). 
The 10-year follow up data from Teen- 
LABS also demonstrates long-term du-
rability of weight loss and comorbidity 
remission in adolescents (164). Additional 
long-term data on the rates of complica-
tions, reoperations, nutritional deficien-
cies, and diabetes recurrence are still 
needed. Furthermore, newer obesity 
pharmacotherapy trials are being per-
formed in children and adolescents with 
the anticipation that positive results for 
weight loss in association with safety, 
including the recently published trial of 
tirzepatide (148), may supplant the need 
for metabolic surgery.
Prevention and Management of 
Diabetes Complications Among All 
Children and Adolescents With 
Diabetes
Recommendations 14.43–14.79, regard-
ing type 1 and type 2 diabetes compli-
cations, are presented in Table 14.1 to 
facilitate direct comparison.
Autoimmune Conditions
Because of the increased frequency of 
other autoimmune diseases in type 1 
diabetes, screening for thyroid dysfunction 
and celiac disease should be considered 
(165–169). Periodic screening in asymp-
tomatic individuals has been recom-
mended, but the optimal frequency of 
screening is unclear.
Although much less common than thy-
roid dysfunction and celiac disease, other 
autoimmune conditions, such as Addison 
disease (primary adrenal insufficiency), 
autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune gas-
tritis, dermatomyositis, premature ovar-
ian failure, and myasthenia gravis, occur 
more commonly in the population with 
type 1 diabetes than in the general pedi-
atric population and should be assessed 
and monitored as clinically indicated. In 
addition, relatives of individuals with 
type 1 diabetes should be offered test-
ing for islet autoantibodies through re-
search studies (e.g., Type 1 Diabetes 
TrialNet) and national programs for early 
diagnosis of preclinical type 1 diabetes 
(stages 1 and 2).
Thyroid Disease
Autoimmune thyroid disease is the most 
common autoimmune disorder associ-
ated with diabetes, occurring in 17–30% 
of individuals with type 1 diabetes (166, 
170,171). At the time of diagnosis, ∼25% 
of children with type 1 diabetes have thy-
roid autoantibodies (172), the presence of 
which is predictive of thyroid dysfunction— 
most commonly hypothyroidism, although 
hyperthyroidism occurs in ∼0.5% of peo-
ple with type 1 diabetes (173,174). For 
thyroid autoantibodies, a study from Swe-
den indicated that antithyroid peroxidase 
antibodies were more predictive of auto-
immune thyroid disease than antithyroglo-
bulin antibodies in multivariate analysis 
(175). Thyroid function tests may be mis-
leading (nonthyroidal illness) if performed 
at the time of diagnosis owing to the effect 
of previous hyperglycemia, ketosis or ke-
toacidosis, weight loss, etc. Therefore, if 
performed at diagnosis and slightly ab-
normal, thyroid function tests should be 
repeated soon after a period of metabolic 
stability and achievement of glycemic 
goals. Subclinical hypothyroidism may be 
associated with an increased risk of symp-
tomatic hypoglycemia and dyslipidemia 
(176,177) and a reduced linear growth 
rate. Hyperthyroidism alters glucose me-
tabolism and usually causes deteriora-
tion of glycemia.
Celiac Disease
Celiac disease is an immune-mediated dis-
order that occurs with increased frequency 
in people with type 1 diabetes (1.6–16.4% 
of individuals compared with 0.3–1% in 
the general population) (165,168,169, 
178–181). Screening people with type 1 
diabetes for celiac disease is further jus-
tified by its association with osteoporo-
sis, vitamin D deficiency, iron deficiency, 
growth failure, erratic glucose levels due 
to altered food absorption, and potential 
increased risk of retinopathy and albu-
minuria (182–184).
Screening for celiac disease includes 
measuring serum levels of IgA and tissue 
transglutaminase (tTG) IgA antibodies, or, 
with IgA deficiency, screening can include 
measuring tTG IgG antibodies or deami-
dated gliadin peptide IgG antibodies. Be-
cause most cases of celiac disease are 
diagnosed within the first 5 years after 
the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes, screen-
ing should be considered soon after diag-
nosis and repeated at 2 and then 5 years 
(179) or if clinical symptoms arise, such as 
poor growth or increased hypoglycemia 
(182).
Although celiac disease can be diag-
nosed more than 10 years after diabetes 
diagnosis, there are insufficient data after 
5 years to determine the optimal screen-
ing frequency. Gastroenterology guide-
lines on screening for celiac disease in 
children (not specific to children with 
type 1 diabetes) suggest that biopsy may 
not be necessary in symptomatic children 
with high antibody titers (i.e., >10 times 
the upper limit of normal) provided that 
further testing is performed (verification 
of endomysial antibody positivity on a 
separate blood sample) (185). About 95% 
of people with type 1 diabetes (186) and 
almost 99% of people with celiac disease 
carry HLA-DQ2 and/or HLA-DQ8 (187), so 
genetic testing may not be needed. In 
symptomatic children with type 1 diabe-
tes and confirmed celiac disease, gluten- 
free eating patterns reduce symptoms 
and rates of hypoglycemia (188). The 
challenging eating plan restrictions associ-
ated with having both type 1 diabetes 
and celiac disease place an added burden 
on individuals. Therefore, a biopsy to con-
firm the diagnosis of celiac disease is recom-
mended when the diagnosis is in question, 
especially in asymptomatic children and 
adolescents, before establishing a diagnosis 
of celiac disease and endorsing significant 
eating plan changes.
Management of Cardiovascular Risk 
Factors
Hypertension
Blood pressure measurements should be 
performed using the appropriate size cuff 
and with arm at heart level with the child 
or adolescent seated and relaxed. Elevated 
blood pressure should be confirmed on at 
least three separate days, and ambulatory 
blood pressure monitoring should be con-
sidered. Evaluation of secondary causes 
of hypertension should proceed as clini-
cally indicated (189,190). Treatment is 
generally initiated with an ACE inhibitor, 
but an angiotensin receptor blocker can 
be used if the ACE inhibitor is not toler-
ated (e.g., due to cough) (191).
Dyslipidemia
Population-based studies estimate that 
14–45% of children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes have two or more athero-
sclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk 
factors (192–194), and the prevalence of 
CVD risk factors increases with age (194) 
and among racial and ethnic minoritized 
groups (119), with girls having a higher risk 
burden than boys (193).
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S307 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 14.1—Recommendations for diabetes-associated conditions in children and adolescents
Type 1 diabetes recommendations
Type 2 diabetes recommendations
Type 1 and 2 diabetes recommendations
Dyslipidemia
14.43 For children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, lipid screening should be 
performed soon after diagnosis, 
preferably after glycemia has improved 
and age is ≥2 years. If initial LDL 
cholesterol is ≤100 mg/dL (≤2.6 mmol/L), 
subsequent testing should be performed 
at 9–11 years of age B and repeated 
every 3 years. E
14.44 In children and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes, lipid screening should be 
performed soon after diagnosis, 
preferably after glycemia has improved 
and annually thereafter. B
14.45 The LDL cholesterol goal is <100 mg/dL (<2.6 mmol/L). E
14.46 In children and adolescents with diabetes, if lipids are 
abnormal, initial therapy should consist of optimizing 
glycemia and medical nutritional therapy to limit calories 
from fat to 25–30% and saturated fat to <7%, limit 
cholesterol to <200 mg/day, avoid trans fats, and aim for 
∼10% calories from monounsaturated fats for elevated LDL. 
For elevated triglycerides, MNT should also focus on 
decreasing carbohydrate intake and increasing foods rich in 
n-3 fatty acids in addition to the above changes. A
14.47 In children and adolescents with diabetes, if LDL cholesterol 
remains >130 mg/dL (>3.4 mmol/L) after  
6 months of nutrition intervention, initiate therapy with a 
statin, with a goal of LDL <100 mg/dL (<2.6 mmol/L). Due 
to the potential teratogenic effects, individuals of childbearing 
potential should receive reproductive counseling, and statins 
should be avoided in individuals of childbearing potential who 
are not using reliable contraception. B
14.48 In children and adolescents with diabetes, if triglycerides 
are >400 mg/dL (>4.7 mmol/L) fasting or >1,000 mg/dL  
(>11.6 mmol/L) nonfasting, optimize glycemia and begin 
fibrate, with a goal of <400 mg/dL (<4.7 mmol/L) fasting to 
reduce risk for pancreatitis. C
Hypertension
-
-
14.49 In children and adolescents with diabetes, BP should be 
measured at every clinic visit. In children and adolescents 
with high BP (BP ≥90th percentile for age, sex, and 
height or, in adolescents aged ≥13 years, ≥120/80 mmHg) 
on three separate measurements, ambulatory BP 
monitoring should be strongly considered. B
-
14.50 Excess weight increases cardiovascular event rates among 
people with diabetes and should be addressed with MNT, 
intensive lifestyle interventions focusing on dyslipidemia, 
hypertension, hyperglycemia along with adjunct 
pharmacotherapy, and/or bariatric surgery as appropriate. C  
14.51 In children and adolescents with diabetes, after excluding 
secondary hypertension, treatment of elevated BP (defined 
as 90th to <95th percentile for age, sex, and height or, in 
adolescents aged ≥13 years, 120–129/<80 mmHg) is 
lifestyle modification focused on healthy nutrition, physical 
activity, sleep, and, if appropriate, weight management. C  
14.52 For children and adolescents with diabetes, after excluding 
other causes, in addition to lifestyle modification, ACE 
inhibitors or ARBs should be started for treatment of 
Continued on p. S309
S308 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 14.1—Continued 
Type 1 diabetes recommendations
Type 2 diabetes recommendations
Type 1 and 2 diabetes recommendations
confirmed hypertension (defined as BP consistently ≥95th 
percentile for age, sex, and height or, in adolescents aged 
≥13 years, BP ≥130/80 mmHg). Due to the potential 
teratogenic effects, individuals of childbearing potential 
should receive reproductive counseling, and ACE inhibitors 
and ARBs should be avoided in individuals of childbearing 
potential who are not using reliable contraception. B
-
-
14.53 For children and adolescents the goal of hypertension 
treatment is BP <90th percentile for age, sex, and height 
or, in adolescents aged ≥13 years, BP <130/80 mmHg. C
Nephropathy
14.54 For children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, nephropathy screening should 
be obtained at puberty or at age  
≥11 years, whichever is earlier, once  
the youth have had diabetes for 5 years 
and annually thereafter. B
14.55 In children and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes, nephropathy screening should 
be performed at the time of diagnosis 
and annually thereafter. An elevated 
UACR (>30 mg/g creatinine) should be 
confirmed on two of three samples. B
14.56 In children and adolescents with diabetes, nephropathy 
screening should be performed with a random spot urine 
sample. Consider obtaining a morning sample if there are 
effects of exercise or orthostatic changes. An elevated UACR  
(>30 mg/g creatinine) should be confirmed on two of three 
samples over a 6-month period. B
14.57 Determine eGFR at the time of diagnosis and annually 
thereafter. E
14.58 In nonpregnant children and adolescents with diabetes, 
either an ACE inhibitor or an ARB is recommended for 
those with moderately increased albuminuria (UACR 
30–299 mg/g creatinine) B and is strongly recommended 
for those with severely increased albuminuria (UACR 
≥300 mg/g creatinine) and/or eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2 
to maximally tolerated dose to prevent the progression of 
kidney disease and reduce cardiovascular events. A If one 
class is not tolerated, the other should be substituted. B 
Due to the potential teratogenic effects, individuals of 
childbearing potential should receive reproductive 
counseling, and ACE inhibitors and ARBs should be avoided 
in individuals of childbearing potential who are not using 
reliable contraception. B
14.59 For children and adolescents with nephropathy, continue 
monitoring (every 3–6 months and/or as indicated by 
UACR and eGFR) to detect disease progression. E
14.60 Refer to nephrology in case of uncertainty of etiology, 
worsening UACR, or decrease in eGFR. E
Retinopathy
14.61 An initial dilated and comprehensive 
diabetes eye examination is recommended 
once youth have had type 1 diabetes for  
3–5 years, provided they are aged  
≥11 years or puberty has started, 
whichever is earlier. B
14.62 Retinopathy screening in children and 
adolescents with type 2 diabetes should 
be performed at or soon after diagnosis 
and annually thereafter. C
14.63 Optimizing glycemia is recommended to decrease the risk 
or slow the progression of retinopathy. B
Continued on p. S310
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S309 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 14.1—Continued 
Type 1 diabetes recommendations
Type 2 diabetes recommendations
Type 1 and 2 diabetes recommendations
14.64 For children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, after the initial examination, 
repeat dilated and comprehensive eye 
examination or retinal photography is 
recommended every 2 years. Less 
frequent examinations, every 4 years, 
may be acceptable on the advice of an 
eye care professional and based on risk 
factor assessment, including a history of 
A1C <8% (<64 mmol/mol). B
14.65 Less frequent examination (every 2 years) 
using dilated eye examination or retinal 
photography may be considered if 
achieving glycemic goals and a normal 
eye exam. C
14.66 Programs that use nondilated retinal photography (with 
remote reading or use of a validated assessment tool) 
can be appropriate screening strategies for diabetic 
retinopathy. B
Neuropathy
14.67 For children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, consider an annual comprehensive 
foot exam at the start of puberty or at age 
≥11 years, whichever is earlier, once the 
youth have had type 1 diabetes for 5 years. 
The examination should include inspection, 
assessment of foot pulses, pinprick, 10-g 
monofilament sensation tests, testing of 
vibration sensation using a 128-Hz tuning 
fork, and ankle reflex tests. B
14.68 Screen children and adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes for the presence of 
neuropathy by foot examination at 
diagnosis and annually. The examination 
could include inspection, assessment of 
foot pulses, pinprick, 10-g monofilament 
sensation tests, testing of vibration 
sensation using a 128-Hz tuning fork, and 
ankle reflex tests. C
-
MASLD
-
14.69 Evaluate children and adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes for MASLD (by 
measuring AST and ALT) at diagnosis and 
annually thereafter. B
-
-
14.70 Consider referral to gastroenterology for 
persistently elevated or worsening 
transaminases. B
-
Obstructive sleep apnea
-
-
14.71 In children and adolescents with diabetes, screening for 
symptoms of sleep apnea should be done at least 
annually, and referral to a pediatric sleep specialist is 
recommended for evaluation and a polysomnogram, if 
indicated. Obstructive sleep apnea should be treated when 
documented. B
Polycystic ovary syndrome
-
-
14.72 Evaluate for polycystic ovary syndrome in adolescent girls 
with diabetes, including laboratory studies, when 
clinically indicated. B
14.73 Metformin, in addition to lifestyle modification, is likely 
to improve the menstrual cyclicity and hyperandrogenism 
in adolescent girls with diabetes. E
Cardiovascular disease
-
-
14.74 Excessive weight gain increases cardiovascular event rates 
among children and adolescents with diabetes and should be 
addressed with lifestyle and obesity pharmacotherapy as 
appropriate. C
Continued on p. S311
S310 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Table 14.1—Continued 
Type 1 diabetes recommendations
Type 2 diabetes recommendations
Type 1 and 2 diabetes recommendations
Autoimmune conditions
14.75 In children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, assess for autoimmune 
conditions outside of critical illness if 
clinically indicated. B
-
-
Thyroid disease
14.76 In children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes, measure thyroid-stimulating 
hormone concentrations at diagnosis 
when clinically stable or soon after 
optimizing glycemia. If normal, suggest 
rechecking every 1–2 years or sooner if 
the individual has positive thyroid 
antibodies or develops symptoms or signs 
suggestive of thyroid dysfunction, 
thyromegaly, an abnormal growth rate, or 
unexplained glycemic variability. B
-
-
Celiac disease
14.77 Screen children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes outside of critical illness 
for celiac disease by measuring IgA tissue 
tTG antibodies, with documentation of 
acceptable serum IgA levels for the local 
assay, soon after the diagnosis of 
diabetes, or IgG tTG and deamidated 
gliadin antibodies if IgA is deficient. B
-
-
-
14.78 Repeat screening for celiac disease 
within 2 years of type 1 diabetes 
diagnosis and then again after 5 years 
and consider more frequent screening in 
children and adolescents who have 
symptoms or a first-degree relative with 
celiac disease. B
-
-
-
14.79 Prescribe a gluten-free eating pattern for 
children and adolescents with confirmed 
celiac disease to avoid nutritional 
complications. Refer children and 
adolescents and their caregivers to a 
registered dietitian nutritionist experienced 
in managing both diabetes and celiac 
disease. B
-
-
ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; BP, blood pressure; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtration rate; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction–associated steatotic liver disease; MNT, medical nutrition therapy; tTG, 
tissue transglutaminase; UACR, urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio.
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S311 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Pathophysiology. The atherosclerotic pro-
cess begins in childhood, and although ath-
erosclerotic CVD events are not expected 
to occur during childhood, observations us-
ing a variety of methodologies show that 
children and adolescents with type 1 dia-
betes may have subclinical CVD within the 
first decade of diagnosis (195–197). Studies 
of carotid intima media thickness have 
yielded inconsistent results (190,191).
Screening. Diabetes predisposes the indi-
vidual to the development of accelerated 
arteriosclerosis. Lipid evaluation for these 
individuals contributes to risk assessment 
and identifies an important proportion of 
those with dyslipidemia. Therefore, initial 
screening should be done soon after diag-
nosis. If the initial screen is normal, subse-
quent screening may be done at 9–11 years 
of age, which is a stable time for lipid as-
sessment in children (198). Children and 
adolescents with a primary lipid disorder 
(e.g., familial hyperlipidemia) should be 
referred to a lipid specialist. Non-HDL 
cholesterol level has been identified as a 
significant predictor of the presence of 
atherosclerosis—as powerful as any other 
lipoprotein cholesterol measure in children 
and adolescents. For people with diabetes, 
non-HDL cholesterol level seems to be 
more predictive of persistent dyslipidemia 
and, therefore, atherosclerosis and future 
events than total cholesterol, LDL choles-
terol, or HDL cholesterol level alone. A ma-
jor advantage (199) of non-HDL cholesterol 
is that it can be accurately calculated in a 
nonfasting state and therefore is practical 
to obtain in clinical practice as a screen-
ing test (200). Youth with type 1 diabetes 
have a high prevalence of lipid abnormal-
ities (192,199). Even if normal, screening 
should be repeated within 3 years, as A1C 
and other cardiovascular risk factors can 
change dramatically during adolescence 
(201).
Treatment. Pediatric lipid guidelines pro-
vide some guidance relevant to children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes and 
secondary dyslipidemia (190,191,202); 
however, there are few studies on mod-
ifying lipid levels in children and adoles-
cents with type 1 diabetes. A 6-month 
trial of nutritional counseling produced a 
significant improvement in lipid levels 
(203); likewise, a lifestyle intervention trial 
with 6 months of exercise in adolescents 
demonstrated improvement in lipid levels 
(204). Data from the SEARCH study show 
that improved glucose over a 2-year pe-
riod is associated with a more favorable 
lipid profile; however, improved glycemia 
alone will not normalize lipids in children 
and adolescents with type 1 diabetes and 
dyslipidemia (205,206).
Although intervention data are sparse, 
the American Heart Association catego-
rizes children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes in the highest tier for cardiovas-
cular risk and recommends both lifestyle 
and pharmacologic treatment for those 
with elevated LDL cholesterol levels 
(207,208). Initial therapy should include a 
nutrition plan that restricts saturated fat to 
7% of total calories and dietary cholesterol 
to 200 mg/day (198). Data from random-
ized clinical trials in children as young as 
7 months of age indicate that this nutri-
tion plan is safe and does not interfere 
with normal growth and development.
Long-term safety and cardiovascular 
outcome efficacy of statin therapy have 
been established for children with familial 
hypercholesterolemia (209). At the time 
of this writing, rosuvastatin is indicated 
for children as young as 6 years old (210). 
Statins should be avoided in individuals 
of childbearing age who are not using 
reliable contraception (see section 15, 
“Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy,” 
for more information). The multicenter, 
randomized, placebo-controlled Adoles-
cent Type 1 Diabetes Cardio-Renal Inter-
vention Trial (AdDIT) provides safety data 
on pharmacologic treatment with an ACE 
inhibitor and statin in adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes (190).
Microvascular Complications
Nephropathy
Data from 7,549 individuals <20 years of 
age in the T1D Exchange clinic registry 
emphasize the importance of meeting 
glycemic and blood pressure goals, partic-
ularly as diabetes duration increases, to 
reduce the risk of chronic kidney disease. 
The data also underscore the importance 
of routine screening to ensure early diag-
nosis and timely treatment of albumin-
uria (211). An estimation of glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR), calculated with GFR- 
estimating equations using serum creati-
nine, height, age, and sex (212), should 
be considered at baseline and repeated 
as indicated based on clinical status, age, 
diabetes duration, and therapies. Improved 
methods are needed to screen for early 
GFR loss, since estimated GFR is inaccurate 
at GFR >75 mL/min/1.73 m2 (212,213). 
The AdDIT study in adolescents with type 1 
diabetes demonstrated the safety of ACE 
inhibitor treatment, but the treatment did 
not change the albumin-to-creatinine ratio 
over the course of the study (190).
Retinopathy
Retinopathy (like albuminuria) most com-
monly occurs after the onset of puberty 
and after 5–10 years of diabetes duration 
(214). It is currently recognized that there 
is a low risk of development of vision- 
threatening retinal lesions prior to 12 years 
of age (215,216). A 2019 publication based 
on the follow-up of the DCCT adolescent 
cohort supports a lower frequency of 
eye examinations than previously recom-
mended, particularly in adolescents with 
A1C closer to the goal range (217,218). 
Autonomous artificial intelligence screen-
ing for diabetic retinopathy has been 
shown to increase access to this routine 
health maintenance (219). Referrals should 
be made to eye care professionals with ex-
pertise in diabetic retinopathy and experi-
ence in counseling pediatric individuals and 
families on the importance of prevention, 
early detection, and intervention.
Neuropathy
Diabetic neuropathy rarely occurs in pre-
pubertal children or after only 1–2 years 
of diabetes (214), although data suggest a 
prevalence of distal peripheral neuropa-
thy of 7% among 1,734 adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes in the SEARCH for Dia-
betes in Youth study and association 
with the presence of CVD risk factors 
(220,221). A comprehensive foot exam, 
including inspection, palpation of dor-
salis pedis and posterior tibial pulses, 
and determination of proprioception, 
vibration, and monofilament sensation, 
should be performed annually along with 
an assessment of symptoms of neuro-
pathic pain (221). Foot inspection can be 
performed at each visit to educate youth 
regarding the importance of foot care and 
often detects concurrent, unreported med-
ical issues like tina pedis or paronychia 
that would require treatment (see sec-
tion 12, “Retinopathy, Neuropathy, and 
Foot Care”).
Type 2 Diabetes Comorbidities
Comorbidities may already be present at 
the time of diagnosis of type 2 diabetes 
in children and adolescents (12,222). 
S312 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Therefore, blood pressure measurement, 
a fasting lipid panel, assessment of ran-
dom urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio, 
foot examination for neuropathy, and a 
dilated eye examination should be per-
formed at diagnosis. Additional medi-
cal conditions that may need to be 
addressed include polycystic ovary dis-
ease and other comorbidities associated 
with pediatric obesity, such as sleep ap-
nea, hepatic steatosis, orthopedic compli-
cations, and psychosocial concerns. The 
ADA position statement “Evaluation and 
Management of Youth-Onset Type 2 Dia-
betes” (3) provides guidance on the pre-
vention, screening, and treatment of type 
2 diabetes and its comorbidities in chil-
dren and adolescents.
Type 2 diabetes in children and adoles-
cents is associated with significant micro-
vascular and macrovascular risk burden 
and a substantial increase in the risk of 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality at 
an earlier age than in those diagnosed 
later in life (13,223). The higher complica-
tion risk in earlier-onset type 2 diabetes is 
likely related to prolonged lifetime exposure 
to hyperglycemia and other atherogenic 
risk factors, including insulin resistance, dys-
lipidemia, hypertension, and chronic inflam-
mation. There is a low risk of hypoglycemia 
in children and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes, even if they are being treated 
with insulin (224), and there are high 
rates of chronic complications (133–
135,224). These diabetes comorbidities 
also appear to be higher than those 
found in children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes despite shorter diabe-
tes duration and lower A1C (222). In 
addition, the progression of vascular 
abnormalities appears to be more pro-
nounced in children and adolescents-onset 
type 2 diabetes than with type 1 diabetes 
of similar duration, including ischemic heart 
disease and stroke (223).
In adolescents with type 2 diabetes 
and polycystic ovary syndrome, oral con-
traceptives are appropriate agents.
SUBSTANCE USE AMONG ALL 
CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS 
WITH DIABETES
Tobacco, Electronic Cigarettes, 
Alcohol, and Cannabis
The adverse health effects of smoking 
and use of tobacco products are well 
recognized with respect to future cancer 
and CVD risk. Despite this, rates of to-
bacco use are significantly higher among 
adolescents and young adults with type 1 
and type 2 diabetes than those with-
out diabetes (225,226). In children and 
adolescents with diabetes, it is important 
to avoid additional CVD risk factors. Smok-
ing increases the risk of the onset of albu-
minuria; therefore, smoking avoidance is 
important to prevent both microvascular 
and macrovascular complications (199). 
Discouraging use of tobacco products, in-
cluding vaping and electronic cigarettes 
(227,228), is an important part of routine 
diabetes care. Individuals with diabetes 
should be advised to avoid vaping and us-
ing electronic cigarettes, either as a way 
to stop smoking tobacco or as a recrea-
tional drug. In younger children, it is im-
portant to assess exposure to cigarette 
smoke in the home because of the ad-
verse effects of secondhand smoke and 
to discourage them from ever smoking.
Alcohol use has implications for glyce-
mic management and safety in adoles-
cents and young adults with diabetes. 
Alcohol consumption can cause delayed 
hypoglycemia, typically 6 to 12 h after 
drinking (229). Further, alcohol increases 
the risk of hypoglycemia unawareness be-
cause symptoms of alcohol intoxication 
(e.g., slurred speech, drowsiness, confu-
sion, difficulty walking) mimic symptoms 
of hypoglycemia (230). An untreated hypo-
glycemic event can result in loss of con-
sciousness, seizure, and even death (230). 
For this reason, efforts are warranted to re-
duce alcohol use and increase education 
about the risks of alcohol use and strate-
gies to minimize risks. A psychoeducational 
intervention for adolescents with chronic 
medical conditions, including type 1 diabe-
tes, has demonstrated benefits for knowl-
edge, understanding of perceived risks, 
and reduced use in some subgroups (231). 
See also section 5, “Facilitating Positive 
Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve 
Health Outcomes.”
Increased legalization and multiple for-
mulations of cannabis products have in-
creased the availability of these products. 
Among adolescents with type 1 diabetes, 
reported cannabis use ranged from 17.1% 
for past-month use to 23% for past 3-month 
use to 30.9% for lifetime use (231,232). Can-
nabis use increases the risk for hyperglyce-
mic ketosis-cannabis hyperemesis syndrome 
in adults with type 1 diabetes (233,234), 
and emerging evidence in adolescents sug-
gests a similar pattern (235). Hyperglycemic 
ketosis-cannabis hyperemesis syndrome is 
characterized by nausea that progresses to 
severe vomiting, leading to ketosis and al-
kalosis, and subsequently hyperglycemia 
(236). For adolescents with type 1 diabetes 
presenting with hyperglycemic emer-
gencies, health care professionals should 
consider hyperglycemic ketosis-cannabis 
hyperemesis syndrome in individuals with 
pH ≥7.4 and bicarbonate >15 mmol/L in 
the presence of ketosis (236). Routine di-
abetes care should discourage the use of 
recreational cannabis in all forms. See 
section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health 
Behaviors and Well-being to Improve 
Health Outcomes,” for more informa-
tion about smoking cessation, tobacco, 
electronic cigarettes, and cannabis use in 
people with diabetes.
Recommendations
14.80 Screen children and adolescents 
with diabetes for tobacco/nicotine 
vaping, substance use, and alcohol use 
at diagnosis and regularly thereafter, C 
discourage use and provide appropri-
ate referrals to cessation programs as 
needed. A
14.81 Advise all children, adolescents, 
and young adults with diabetes not to 
use cannabis recreationally in any form. E
TRANSITION FROM PEDIATRIC TO 
ADULT CARE FOR ALL CHILDREN 
AND ADOLESCENTS WITH 
DIABETES
Recommendations
14.82 Diabetes care teams should im-
plement transition preparation pro-
grams beginning in early adolescence 
and, at the latest, at least 1 year be-
fore the anticipated transfer from pe-
diatric to adult health care. E
14.83 Interprofessional adult and pedi-
atric health care teams should provide 
support and resources for adolescents, 
young adults, and their families prior 
to and during the transfer process 
from pediatric to adult health care. C
14.84 Pediatric diabetes specialists 
should partner with adolescents with 
diabetes and their caregivers to en-
gage in shared decision-making for 
the timing of transfer to an adult 
diabetes specialist. There is no age- 
specific cutoff for young people with di-
abetes to transfer to an adult diabetes 
specialist. E
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S313 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

Care and close supervision of diabetes 
management are increasingly shifted from 
parents and other adults to the young 
people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes 
throughout childhood and adoles-
cence. The shift from pediatric to adult 
health care professionals, however, often 
occurs abruptly as the older teen enters 
the next developmental stage, referred 
to as emerging adulthood (237), which is 
a critical period for young people who 
have diabetes. During this period of major 
life transitions, adolescents and young 
adults may begin to move out of their 
parents’ or caregivers’ homes and be-
come increasingly responsible for their 
diabetes care. Their new responsibilities 
include self-management of their diabe-
tes, scheduling and attending medical 
appointments, ensuring timely prescrip-
tion refills, and financing health care once 
they are no longer covered by their pa-
rents’ health insurance plans (ongoing 
coverage until age 26 years is currently 
available under provisions of the U.S. Af-
fordable Care Act). In addition to lapses 
in health care, this is also a period as-
sociated with deterioration in glycemic 
stability; increased occurrence of acute 
complications; psychosocial, emotional, 
and behavioral challenges; and the emer-
gence of chronic complications (238,239). 
The transfer period from pediatric to 
adult care is prone to fragmentation in 
health care delivery, which may adversely 
impact health care quality, cost, and out-
comes (240). Worsening diabetes health 
outcomes during the transition to adult 
care and early adulthood have been 
documented (241,242).
Comprehensive and coordinated plan-
ning that begins in early adolescence is 
necessary to facilitate a seamless transi-
tion from pediatric to adult health care 
(238). Research on effective interventions 
to promote successful transition to adult 
care is limited, although there are promis-
ing developments that may improve at-
tendance at follow-up appointments and 
lower hospitalizations (243,244). Use of 
transition coordinators, technology to sup-
port communication with young adults, 
and other interventions may be useful in 
addressing the identified needs and pref-
erences of young adults for transition 
(245) and in supporting successful estab-
lishment in adult care settings (246–249). 
Given the behavioral, psychosocial, and 
developmental factors that relate to this 
transition, diabetes care teams addressing 
transition should include clinicians certified 
diabetes care and education specialists, 
nurses, behavioral health professionals, reg-
istered dietitian nutritionists, and social 
workers (64,250). Resources to enhance 
social and peer support during the transi-
tion process may also be valuable (251). 
A comprehensive discussion regarding the 
challenges faced during this period, in-
cluding specific recommendations, is 
found in the ADA position statement 
“Diabetes Care for Emerging Adults: Rec-
ommendations for Transition From Pedi-
atric to Adult Diabetes Care Systems” 
(238). Ultimately, there is no age cutoff 
for adolescents and young adults with di-
abetes to transfer to adult diabetes care. 
The decision to transfer should be a col-
laborative process in which the young 
person with diabetes, their caregivers, 
and pediatric diabetes specialists discuss 
readiness, preferences, and concerns to 
ensure that the transfer aligns with the 
young person’s needs and circumstances 
(244).
The Endocrine Society, in collaboration 
with the ADA and other organizations, 
has developed transition tools for clini-
cians and young people with diabetes and 
their families (238).
References
1. American Academy of Pediatrics. Recommended 
Child and Adolescent Immunization Schedule for 
Ages 18 Years or Younger. 2025. Accessed 21 August 
2025. Available from https://aap2.silverchair-cdn 
.com/aap2/content_public/cms/resources/15585/0- 
18yrs-child-combined-schedule.pdf?Expires= 
2147483647&Signature=GDx7iGeLG8m9wTAJu 
JPB0P7WFujPrQqPr9aQC4T1PzpYHKdkukTOTSPo 
3PSdsyNNum1CFFzShl7muP1SFGggziJnYf7zA 
GKZZx4Ky4Q0BAhbsOXLby4c
2. Chiang JL, Maahs DM, Garvey KC, et al. Type 1 
diabetes in children and adolescents: a position 
statement by the American Diabetes Association. 
Diabetes Care 2018;41:2026–2044
3. Arslanian S, Bacha F, Grey M, Marcus MD, 
White NH, Zeitler P. Evaluation and management 
of youth-onset type 2 diabetes: a position statement 
by the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes 
Care 2018;41:2648–2668
4. Lawrence JM, Divers J, Isom S, et al.; SEARCH 
for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. Trends in 
prevalence of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in 
children and adolescents in the US, 2001–2017. 
JAMA 2021;326:717–727
5. Leslie RD, Evans-Molina C, Freund-Brown J, et al. 
Adult-onset type 1 diabetes: current understanding 
and challenges. Diabetes Care 2021;44:2449–2456
6. Fang M, Wang D, Selvin E. Prevalence of type 1 
diabetes among us children and adults by age, sex, 
race, and ethnicity. JAMA 2024;331:1411–1413
7. Ghetti S, Kuppermann N, Rewers A, et al.; 
Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research 
Network (PECARN) DKA FLUID Study Group. 
Cognitive function following diabetic ketoacidosis in 
children with new-onset or previously diagnosed 
type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2020;43:2768–2775
8. Markowitz JT, Garvey KC, Laffel LMB. Develop- 
mental changes in the roles of patients and families 
in type 1 diabetes management. Curr Diabetes Rev 
2015;11:231–238
9. Liu LL, Lawrence JM, Davis C, et al.; SEARCH 
for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. Prevalence of 
overweight and obesity in youth with diabetes in 
USA: the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study. 
Pediatr Diabetes 2010;11:4–11
10. Imperatore G, Boyle JP, Thompson TJ, et al.; 
SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. 
Projections of type 1 and type 2 diabetes burden 
in the U.S. population aged <20 years through 
2050. Diabetes Care 2012;35:2515–2520
11. Pettitt DJ, Talton J, Dabelea D, et al.; SEARCH 
for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. Prevalence of 
diabetes in U.S. youth in 2009: the SEARCH for 
diabetes in youth study. Diabetes Care 2014;37: 
402–408
12. Copeland KC, Zeitler P, Geffner M, et al.; 
TODAY Study Group. Characteristics of adolescents 
and youth with recent-onset type 2 diabetes: the 
TODAY cohort at baseline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2011;96:159–167
13. Bjornstad P, Drews KL, Caprio S, et al.; 
TODAY Study Group. Long-term complications 
in youth-onset type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 
2021;385:416–426
14. Naughton MJ, Ruggiero AM, Lawrence JM, 
et al.; SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. 
Health-related quality of life of children and 
adolescents with type 1 or type 2 diabetes 
mellitus: SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study. 
Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2008;162:649–657
15. Whalen DJ, Belden AC, Tillman R, Barch DM, 
Luby JL. Early adversity, psychopathology, and 
latent class profiles of global physical health from 
preschool through early adolescence. Psychosom 
Med 2016;78:1008–1018
16. Cioana M, Deng J, Nadarajah A, et al. The 
prevalence of obesity among children with type 2 
diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
JAMA Netw Open 2022;5:e2247186
17. Srinivasan S, Chen L, Todd J, et al. Erratum. 
the first genome-wide association study for type 2 
diabetes in youth: the Progress in Diabetes 
Genetics in Youth (ProDiGY) consortium. Diabetes 
2021;70:996–1005. Diabetes 2022;70:170
18. Perng W, Oken E, Dabelea D. Developmental 
overnutrition and obesity and type 2 diabetes in 
offspring. Diabetologia 2019;62:1779–1788
19. Cockcroft EJ, Clarke R, Dias RP, et al. 
Effectiveness of educational and psychoeducational 
self-management interventions in children and 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis. Pediatr Diabetes 2024; 
2024:2921845
20. Kurtzhals M, Bjerregaard AL, Hybschmann J, 
et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of 
the child-level effects of family-based interventions 
for the prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Obes Rev 2024;25:e13742
21. Driscoll KA, Volkening LK, Haro H, et al. Are 
children with type 1 diabetes safe at school? 
Examining parent perceptions. Pediatr Diabetes 
2015;16:613–620
22. Kubota-Mishra E, Huang X, Minard CG, et al.; 
RADIANT Study Group. High prevalence of A-β+ 
ketosis-prone diabetes in children with type 2 
S314 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

diabetes and diabetic ketoacidosis at diagnosis: 
evidence from the Rare and Atypical Diabetes 
Network (RADIANT). Pediatr Diabetes 2024;2024: 
5907924
23. Muñoz-Pardeza J, López-Gil JF, Huerta-Uribe 
N, Hormazábal-Aguayo I, Izquierdo M, García- 
Hermoso A. Nonpharmacological interventions 
on glycated haemoglobin in youth with type 1 
diabetes: a Bayesian network meta-analysis. Car- 
diovasc Diabetol 2024;23:230
24. U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services. 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020–2025. 
Accessed 30 August 2025. Available from https:// 
www.dietaryguidelines.gov/sites/default/files/ 
2021-03/Dietary_Guidelines_for_Americans- 
2020-2025.pdf
25. Carino M, New RH, Nguyen J, et al. Non- 
pharmacological management strategies for type 2 
diabetes in children and young adults: a systematic 
review. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2025;222:112045
26. Smith TA, Marlow AA, King BR, Smart CE. 
Insulin strategies for dietary fat and protein in 
type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Diabet Med 
2021;38:e14641
27. Paterson MA, King BR, Smart CEM, Smith T, 
Rafferty J, Lopez PE. Impact of dietary protein 
on postprandial glycaemic control and insulin 
requirements in Type 1 diabetes: a systematic 
review. Diabet Med 2019;36:1585–1599
28. Ringholm L, Nørgaard SK, Rytter A, Damm P, 
Mathiesen ER. Dietary advice to support glycaemic 
control and weight management in women with 
type 1 diabetes during pregnancy and breast- 
feeding. Nutrients 2022;14:4867
29. Steiman De Visser H, Fast I, Brunton N, et al. 
Cardiorespiratory fitness and physical activity in 
pediatric diabetes: a systemic review and meta- 
analysis. JAMA Netw Open 2024;7:e240235
30. García-Hermoso A, Ezzatvar Y, Huerta-Uribe 
N, et al. Effects of exercise training on glycaemic 
control in youths with type 1 diabetes: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled 
trials. Eur J Sport Sci 2023;23:1056–1067
31. Huerta-Uribe N, Hormazábal-Aguayo IA, 
Izquierdo M, García-Hermoso A. Youth with type 1 
diabetes mellitus are more inactive and sedentary 
than apparently healthy peers: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 
2023;200:110697
32. Migueles JH, Cadenas-Sanchez C, Lubans 
DR, et al. Effects of an exercise program on 
cardiometabolic and mental health in children 
with overweight or obesity: a secondary analysis 
of a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Netw Open 
2023;6:e2324839
33. Slaght JL, Wicklow BA, Dart AB, et al. Physical 
activity and cardiometabolic health in adolescents 
with type 2 diabetes: a cross-sectional study. BMJ 
Open Diabetes Res Care 2021;9:e002134
34. U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services. Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, 
2nd ed. Accessed 23 August 2025. Available from 
https://odphp.health.gov/sites/default/files/2019- 
09/Physical_Activity_Guidelines_2nd_edition.pdf
35. Colberg SR, Sigal RJ, Yardley JE, et al. Physical 
activity/exercise and diabetes: a position statement 
of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes 
Care 2016;39:2065–2079
36. Moser O, Riddell MC, Eckstein ML, et al. 
Glucose management for exercise using continuous 
glucose monitoring (CGM) and intermittently 
scanned CGM (isCGM) systems in type 1 diabetes: 
position statement of the European Association 
for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and of the 
International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent 
Diabetes (ISPAD) endorsed by JDRF and supported 
by the American Diabetes Association (ADA). 
Diabetologia 2020;63:2501–2520
37. Adolfsson P, Taplin CE, Zaharieva DP, et al. 
ISPAD Clinical Practice Consensus Guidelines 2022: 
exercise in children and adolescents with diabetes. 
Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23:1341–1372
38. Cogen F, Rodriguez H, March CA, et al. 
Diabetes care in the school setting: a statement 
of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes 
Care 2024;47:2050–2061
39. American Association of Diabetes Educators. 
Management of children with diabetes in the 
school setting. Diabetes Educ 2018;44:51–56
40. March C, Sherman J, Bannuru RR, et al. Care 
of young children with diabetes in the childcare and 
community setting: a statement of the American 
Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2023;46: 
2102–2111
41. Hilliard ME, De Wit M, Wasserman RM, et al. 
Screening and support for emotional burdens 
of youth with type 1 diabetes: strategies for 
diabetes care providers. Pediatr Diabetes 2018; 
19:534–543
42. Hill-Briggs F, Adler NE, Berkowitz SA, et al. 
Social determinants of health and diabetes: a 
scientific review. Diabetes Care 2020;44:258–279
43. Young-Hyman D, de Groot M, Hill-Briggs F, 
Gonzalez JS, Hood K, Peyrot M. Psychosocial care 
for people with diabetes: a position statement of 
the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 
2016;39:2126–2140
44. Odugbesan O, Wright T, Jones N-HY, et al.; 
T1D Exchange Quality Improvement Collaborative. 
Increasing social determinants of health screening 
rates among six endocrinology centers across the 
United States: results From the T1D Exchange 
Quality Improvement Collaborative. Clin Diabetes 
2024;42:49–55
45. Hagger V, Hendrieckx C, Sturt J, Skinner TC, 
Speight J. Diabetes distress among adolescents 
with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Curr 
Diab Rep 2016;16:9
46. Young V, Eiser C, Johnson B, et al. Eating 
problems in adolescents with type 1 diabetes: a 
systematic review with meta-analysis. Diabet 
Med 2013;30:189–198
47. Cooper MN, Lin A, Alvares GA, de Klerk NH, 
Jones TW, Davis EA. Psychiatric disorders during 
early adulthood in those with childhood onset 
type 1 diabetes: rates and clinical risk factors 
from population-based follow-up. Pediatr Diabetes 
2017;18:599–606
48. Roberts AJ, Bao H, Qu P, et al. Mental health 
comorbidities in adolescents and young adults 
with type 2 diabetes. J Pediatr Nurs 2021;61: 
280–283
49. McVoy M, Hardin H, Fulchiero E, et al. 
Mental health comorbidity and youth onset type 2 
diabetes: a systematic review of the literature. Int J 
Psychiatry Med 2023;58:37–55
50. Mateo K, Greenberg B, Valenzuela J. Dis- 
ordered eating behaviors and eating disorders in 
youth with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. 
Diabetes Spectr 2024;37:342–348
51. Trief PM, Uschner D, Tung M, et al. Diabetes 
distress in young adults with youth-onset type 2 
diabetes: TODAY2 Study results. Diabetes Care 
2022;45:529–537
52. Evans MA, Weil LEG, Shapiro JB, et al. 
Psychometric properties of the parent and child 
problem areas in diabetes measures. J Pediatr 
Psychol 2019;44:703–713
53. Akbarizadeh M, Naderi Far M, Ghaljaei F. 
Prevalence of depression and anxiety among 
children with type 1 and type 2 diabetes: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis. World J 
Pediatr 2022;18:16–26
54. Weitzman C, Guevara J, Curtin M, Macias M, 
Society for Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics. 
Promoting optimal development: screening for 
mental health, emotional, and behavioral problems: 
clinical report. Pediatrics 2025;156:e2025073172
55. Andreopoulou O, Kostopoulou E, Kotanidou 
E, et al. Evaluation of the possible impact of the 
fear of hypoglycemia on diabetes management in 
children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus and their parents: a cross-sectional 
study. Hormones (Athens) 2024;23:419–428
56. Pursey KM, Hart M, Jenkins L, McEvoy M, 
Smart CE. Screening and identification of dis- 
ordered eating in people with type 1 diabetes: 
a systematic review. J Diabetes Complications 
2020;34:107522
57. Wisting L, Frøisland DH, Skrivarhaug T, Dahl- 
Jørgensen K, Rø O. Disturbed eating behavior 
and omission of insulin in adolescents receiving 
intensified insulin treatment: a nationwide 
population-based study. Diabetes Care 2013;36: 
3382–3387
58. Nip ASY, Reboussin BA, Dabelea D, et al.; 
SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. 
Disordered eating behaviors in youth and young 
adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes receiving 
insulin therapy: the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth 
Study. Diabetes Care 2019;42:859–866
59. Inverso H, Moore HR, Lupini F, et al. 
Mindfulness-based interventions: focus on pediatric 
type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Curr Diab Rep 2022; 
22:493–500
60. Aljawarneh YM, Al-Qaissi NM, Ghunaim HY. 
Psychological interventions for adherence, metabolic 
control, and coping with stress in adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. World J Pediatr 
2020;16:456–470
61. Gulley LD, Shomaker LB, Kelly NR, et al. 
Examining cognitive-behavioral therapy change 
mechanisms for decreasing depression, weight, 
and insulin resistance in adolescent girls at risk 
for type 2 diabetes. J Psychosom Res 2022;157: 
110781
62. Katz ML, Volkening LK, Butler DA, Anderson 
BJ, Laffel LM. Family-based psychoeducation and 
Care Ambassador intervention to improve glycemic 
control in youth with type 1 diabetes: a randomized 
trial. Pediatr Diabetes 2014;15:142–150
63. Hickling A, Dingle GA, Barrett HL, Cobham 
VE. Systematic review: diabetes family conflict in 
young people with type 1 diabetes. J Pediatr 
Psychol 2021;46:1091–1109
64. Kichler JC, Harris MA, Weissberg-Benchell J. 
Contemporary roles of the pediatric psychologist 
in diabetes care. Curr Diabetes Rev 2015;11: 
210–221
65. Hilliard ME, Powell PW, Anderson BJ. Evidence- 
based behavioral interventions to promote diabetes 
management in children, adolescents, and families. 
Am Psychol 2016;71:590–601
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S315 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

66. Van Vleet M, Helgeson VS. Friend and peer 
relationships among youth with type 1 diabetes. 
In Behavioral diabetes: social ecological perspectives 
for pediatric and adult populations. Cham, 
Switzerland, Springer Nature Switzerland AG, 2020. 
pp. 121–138
67. Chiang JL, Kirkman MS, Laffel LMB, Peters 
AL; Type 1 Diabetes Sourcebook Authors. Type 1 
diabetes through the life span: a position 
statement of the American Diabetes Association. 
Diabetes Care 2014;37:2034–2054
68. Knight MF, Perfect MM. Glycemic control 
influences on academic performance in youth 
with type 1 diabetes. Sch Psychol 2019;34:646–
655
69. Miller VA, Jawad AF. Decision-making in- 
volvement and prediction of adherence in youth 
with type 1 diabetes: a cohort sequential study. J 
Pediatr Psychol 2019;44:61–71
70. Miller VA, Xiao R, Slick N, Feudtner C, Willi 
SM. Youth involvement in the decision to start 
CGM predicts subsequent CGM use. Diabetes 
Care 2020;43:2355–2361
71. Wysocki T, James L, Milkes A, et al. Electroni- 
cally verified use of internet-based, multimedia 
decision aids by adolescents with type 1 diabetes 
and their caregivers. MDM Policy Pract 2018;3: 
2381468318769857
72. Hannon TS, Moore CM, Cheng ER, et al. 
Codesigned shared decision-making diabetes 
management plan tool for adolescents with type 1 
diabetes mellitus and their parents: prototype 
development and pilot test. J Particip Med 2018; 
10:e8
73. Hannon TS, Yazel-Smith LG, Hatton AS, et al. 
Advancing diabetes management in adolescents: 
comparative effectiveness of mobile self-monitoring 
blood glucose technology and family-centered goal 
setting. Pediatr Diabetes 2018;19:776–781
74. Pugh A, Ritholz MD, Beverly EA. Similarities 
and Differences in Diabetes Diagnosis Stories 
Among Adults With Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes in 
Appalachian Ohio. Clin Diabetes 2024;42:408–418
75. Weithorn LA. When does a minor’s legal 
competence to make health care decisions matter? 
Pediatrics 2020;146:S25–S32
76. TODAY Study Group. Pregnancy outcomes in 
young women with youth-onset type 2 diabetes 
followed in the TODAY Study. Diabetes Care 
2021;45:1038–1045
77. Peterson-Burch F, Abujaradeh H, Charache 
N, Fischl A, Charron-Prochownik D. Preconception 
counseling for adolescents and young adults with 
diabetes: a literature review of the past 10 years. 
Curr Diab Rep 2018;18:11
78. American Diabetes Association. Reproductive 
Health for Teen Girls with Diabetes. Accessed 
31 August 2025. Available from https://diabetes.org/ 
health-wellness/sexual-health/reproductive-health- 
teen-girls-diabetes
79. Nathan DM, Genuth S, Lachin J, et al.; 
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research 
Group. The effect of intensive treatment of 
diabetes on the development and progression of 
long-term complications in insulin-dependent dia- 
betes mellitus. N Engl J Med 1993;329:977–986
80. Gerhardsson P, Schwandt A, Witsch M, et al. 
The SWEET Project 10-year benchmarking in 
19 countries worldwide is associated with improved 
HbA1c and increased use of diabetes technology in 
youth with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 
2021;23:491–499
81. Zimmermann AT, Lanzinger S, Kummernes 
SJ, et al. Treatment regimens and glycaemic 
outcomes in more than 100000 children with 
type 1 diabetes (2013-22): a longitudinal analysis 
of data from paediatric diabetes registries. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 2025;13:47–56
82. Ebekozien O, Mungmode A, Sanchez J, et al. 
Longitudinal trends in glycemic outcomes and 
technology use for over 48,000 people with type 1 
diabetes (2016–2022) from the T1D Exchange 
Quality Improvement Collaborative. Diabetes 
Technol Ther 2023;25:765–773
83. Diabetes Control and Complications Trial 
Research Group. Effect of intensive diabetes 
treatment on the development and progression 
of long-term complications in adolescents with 
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: Diabetes 
Control and Complications Trial. J Pediatr 1994; 
125:177–188
84. White NH, Cleary PA, Dahms W, Goldstein D, 
Malone J, Tamborlane WV; Diabetes Control 
and Complications Trial (DCCT)/Epidemiology of 
Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) 
Research Group. Beneficial effects of intensive 
therapy of diabetes during adolescence: outcomes 
after the conclusion of the Diabetes Control and 
Complications Trial (DCCT). J Pediatr 2001;139: 
804–812
85. Carlsen S, Skrivarhaug T, Thue G, et al. 
Glycemic control and complications in patients 
with type 1 diabetes - a registry-based longitudinal 
study of adolescents and young adults. Pediatr 
Diabetes 2017;18:188–195
86. Genuth SM, Backlund J-YC, Bayless M, et al.; 
DCCT/EDIC Research Group. Effects of prior 
intensive versus conventional therapy and his- 
tory of glycemia on cardiac function in type 1 
diabetes in the DCCT/EDIC. Diabetes 2013;62: 
3561–3569
87. Writing Team for the Diabetes Control and 
Complications Trial/Epidemiology of Diabetes 
Interventions and Complications Research Group. 
Sustained effect of intensive treatment of type 1 
diabetes mellitus on development and progression 
of diabetic nephropathy: the Epidemiology of 
Diabetes Interventions and Complications (EDIC) 
study. JAMA 2003;290:2159–2167
88. Gubitosi-Klug RA, Sun W, Cleary PA, et al.; 
Writing Team for the DCCT/EDIC Research Group. 
Effects of prior intensive insulin therapy and risk 
factors on patient-reported visual function outcomes 
in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/ 
Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Com- 
plications (DCCT/EDIC) cohort. JAMA Ophthalmol 
2016;134:137–145
89. Orchard TJ, Nathan DM, Zinman B, et al.; 
Writing Group for the DCCT/EDIC Research Group. 
Association between 7 years of intensive treatment 
of type 1 diabetes and long-term mortality. JAMA 
2015;313:45–53
90. Swift PGF, Skinner TC, de Beaufort CE, et al.; 
Hvidoere Study Group on Childhood Diabetes. 
Target setting in intensive insulin management is 
associated with metabolic control: the Hvidoere 
Childhood Diabetes Study Group Centre differences 
study 2005. Pediatr Diabetes 2010;11:271–278
91. Haynes A, Hermann JM, Miller KM, et al.; 
T1D Exchange, WACDD and DPV registries. Severe 
hypoglycemia rates are not associated with HbA1c: 
a cross-sectional analysis of 3 contemporary 
pediatric diabetes registry databases. Pediatr 
Diabetes 2017;18:643–650
92. Haynes A, Hermann JM, Clapin H, et al.; 
WACDD and DPV registries. Decreasing trends 
in mean HbA1c are not associated with increas- 
ing rates of severe hypoglycemia in children: 
a longitudinal analysis of two contemporary 
population-based pediatric type 1 diabetes regis- 
tries from Australia and Germany/Austria between 
1995 and 2016. Diabetes Care 2019;42:1630–1636
93. Karges B, Rosenbauer J, Kapellen T, et al. 
Hemoglobin A1c levels and risk of severe 
hypoglycemia in children and young adults with 
type 1 diabetes from Germany and Austria: a 
trend analysis in a cohort of 37,539 patients 
between 1995 and 2012. PLoS Med 2014;11: 
e1001742
94. Karges B, Rosenbauer J, Stahl-Pehe A, et al. 
Hybrid closed-loop insulin therapy and risk of 
severe hypoglycaemia and diabetic ketoacidosis 
in young people (aged 2–20 years) with type 1 
diabetes: a population-based study. Lancet Diabetes 
Endocrinol 2025;13:88–96
95. Miller KM, Beck RW, Bergenstal RM, et al.; 
T1D Exchange Clinic Network. Evidence of a 
strong association between frequency of self- 
monitoring of blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c 
levels in T1D exchange clinic registry participants. 
Diabetes Care 2013;36:2009–2014
96. Laffel LM, Kanapka LG, Beck RW, et al.; 
CDE10. Effect of continuous glucose monitoring 
on glycemic control in adolescents and young 
adults with type 1 diabetes: a randomized clinical 
trial. JAMA 2020;323:2388–2396
97. Prahalad P, Ding VY, Zaharieva DP, et al. 
Teamwork, targets, technology, and tight control 
in newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes: the Pilot 4T 
Study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2022;107:998–
1008
98. Champakanath A, Akturk HK, Alonso GT, 
Snell-Bergeon JK, Shah VN. Continuous glucose 
monitoring initiation within first year of type 1 
diabetes diagnosis is associated with improved 
glycemic outcomes: 7-year follow-up study. Diabetes 
Care 2022;45:750–753
99. Patton SR, Noser AE, Youngkin EM, Majidi S, 
Clements MA. Early initiation of diabetes devices 
relates to improved glycemic control in children 
with recent-onset type 1 diabetes mellitus. 
Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21:379–384
100. Strategies to Enhance New CGM Use 
in Early Childhood (SENCE) Study Group. A 
randomized clinical trial assessing continuous 
glucose monitoring (CGM) use with standardized 
education with or without a family behavioral 
intervention compared with fingerstick blood 
glucose monitoring in very young children with 
type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2021;44:464–472
101. Battelino T, Danne T, Bergenstal RM, et al. 
Clinical targets for continuous glucose monitoring 
data interpretation: recommendations from 
the International Consensus on Time in Range. 
Diabetes Care 2019;42:1593–1603
102. Vigersky RA, McMahon C. The relationship 
of hemoglobin A1C to time-in-range in patients 
with diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2019;21: 
81–85
103. Petersson J, Åkesson K, Sundberg F, Särnblad 
S. Translating glycated hemoglobin A1c into time 
spent in glucose target range: a multicenter study. 
Pediatr Diabetes 2019;20:339–344
104. Riddlesworth TD, Beck RW, Gal RL, et al. 
Optimal sampling duration for continuous glucose 
S316 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

monitoring to determine long-term glycemic 
control. Diabetes Technol Ther 2018;20:314–316
105. Gera S, Rearson A, Gallop RJ, Marks BE. 
Minimum continuous glucose monitor data required 
to assess glycemic control in youth with type 1 
diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2025:10.1089/ 
dia.2025.0173
106. Mauras N, Buckingham B, White NH, et al.; 
Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet). 
Impact of type 1 diabetes in the developing brain 
in children: a longitudinal study. Diabetes Care 
2021;44:983–992
107. Foland-Ross LC, Tong G, Mauras N, et al.; 
Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet). 
Brain function differences in children with type 1 
diabetes: a functional MRI study of working 
memory. Diabetes 2020;69:1770–1778
108. Mauras N, Ma Q, Weinzimer SA, et al.; 
Diabetes Research in Children Network (DirecNet). 
Differences in white matter microstructure in 
children with type 1 diabetes persist during 
longitudinal follow-up: relation to dysglycemia. 
Diabetes 2025;74:1417–1426
109. Pourabbasi A, Tehrani-Doost M, Qavam SE, 
Arzaghi SM, Larijani B. Association of diabetes 
mellitus and structural changes in the central 
nervous system in children and adolescents: a 
systematic review. J Diabetes Metab Disord 
2017;16:10
110. Riddell MC, Gal RL, Bergford S, et al. The 
acute effects of real-world physical activity on 
glycemia in adolescents with type 1 diabetes: the 
Type 1 Diabetes Exercise Initiative Pediatric 
(T1DEXIP) study. Diabetes Care 2024;47:132–139
111. Sherr JL, Bergford S, Gal RL, et al. Exploring 
factors that influence postexercise glycemia in 
youth with type 1 diabetes in the real world: the 
Type 1 Diabetes Exercise Initiative Pediatric 
(T1DEXIP) study. Diabetes Care 2024;47:849–857
112. Mehta SN, Volkening LK, Anderson BJ, et 
al.; Family Management of Childhood Diabetes 
Study Steering Committee. Dietary behaviors 
predict glycemic control in youth with type 1 
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2008;31:1318–1320
113. Moser O, Zaharieva DP, Adolfsson P, et al. 
The use of automated insulin delivery around 
physical activity and exercise in type 1 diabetes: a 
position statement of the European Association 
for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and the 
International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent 
Diabetes (ISPAD). Diabetologia 2025;68:255–280
114. Eckstein ML, Weilguni B, Tauschmann M, et 
al. Time in range for closed-loop systems versus 
standard of care during physical exercise in 
people with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review 
and meta-analysis. J Clin Med 2021;10:2445
115. Riddell MC, Gallen IW, Smart CE, et al. 
Exercise management in type 1 diabetes: a 
consensus statement. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 
2017;5:377–390
116. Da Prato G, Pasquini S, Rinaldi E, et al. 
Accuracy of CGM systems during continuous and 
interval exercise in adults with type 1 diabetes. 
J Diabetes Sci Technol 2022;16:1436–1443
117. Aj�cevi�c M, Candido R, Assaloni R, Accardo 
A, Francescato MP. Personalized approach for 
the management of exercise-related glycemic 
imbalances in type 1 diabetes: comparison with 
reference method. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2021; 
15:1153–1160
118. Baker LB, Rollo I, Stein KW, Jeukendrup AE. 
Acute effects of carbohydrate supplementation 
on intermittent sports performance. Nutrients 
2015;7:5733–5763
119. Redondo MJ, Libman I, Cheng P, et al.; 
Pediatric Diabetes Consortium. Racial/ethnic 
minority youth with recent-onset type 1 diabetes 
have poor prognostic factors. Diabetes Care 
2018;41:1017–1024
120. Tönnies T, Brinks R, Isom S, et al. Projections 
of type 1 and type 2 diabetes burden in the U.S. 
population aged <20 years through 2060: the 
SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study. Diabetes 
Care 2023;46:313–320
121. Buse JB, Kaufman FR, Linder B, Hirst K, 
El Ghormli L, Willi S, HEALTHY Study Group. 
Diabetes screening with hemoglobin A(1c) versus 
fasting plasma glucose in a multiethnic middle- 
school cohort. Diabetes Care 2013;36:429–435
122. Klingensmith GJ, Pyle L, Arslanian S, et al.; 
TODAY Study Group. The presence of GAD and 
IA-2 antibodies in youth with a type 2 diabetes 
phenotype: results from the TODAY study. Diabetes 
Care 2010;33:1970–1975
123. Hannon TS, Arslanian SA. The changing face 
of diabetes in youth: lessons learned from 
studies of type 2 diabetes. Ann N Y Acad Sci 
2015;1353:113–137
124. Kapadia C, Zeitler P; Drugs and Therapeutics 
Committee of the Pediatric Endocrine Society. 
Hemoglobin A1c measurement for the diagnosis of 
type 2 diabetes in children. Int J Pediatr Endocrinol 
2012;2012:31
125. Wallace AS, Wang D, Shin J-I, Selvin E. 
Screening and diagnosis of prediabetes and 
diabetes in US children and adolescents. Pediatrics 
2020;146:e20200265
126. DuBose SN, Hermann JM, Tamborlane WV, 
et al.; Type 1 Diabetes Exchange Clinic Network 
and Diabetes Prospective Follow-up Registry. 
Obesity in youth with type 1 diabetes in Germany, 
Austria, and the United States. J Pediatr 2015; 
167:627–632 e621–624
127. Dabelea D, Rewers A, Stafford JM, et al.; 
SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. 
Trends in the prevalence of ketoacidosis at 
diabetes diagnosis: the SEARCH for diabetes in 
youth study. Pediatrics 2014;133:e938–e945
128. Hutchins J, Barajas RA, Hale D, Escaname E, 
Lynch J. Type 2 diabetes in a 5-year-old and single 
center experience of type 2 diabetes in youth 
under 10. Pediatr Diabetes 2017;18:674–677
129. Ferrara CT, Geyer SM, Liu Y-F, et al.; Type 1 
Diabetes TrialNet Study Group. Excess BMI in 
childhood: a modifiable risk factor for type 1 
diabetes development? Diabetes Care 2017;40: 
698–701
130. Pozzilli P, Guglielmi C, Caprio S, Buzzetti R. 
Obesity, autoimmunity, and double diabetes in 
youth. Diabetes Care 2011;34 Suppl 2:S166–S170
131. Van Stappen V, Cardon G, De Craemer M, 
et al. The effect of a cluster-randomized controlled 
trial on lifestyle behaviors among families at risk 
for developing type 2 diabetes across Europe: the 
Feel4Diabetes-study. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act 
2021;18:86
132. TODAY Study Group. Safety and tolerability 
of the treatment of youth-onset type 2 diabetes: 
the TODAY experience. Diabetes Care 2013;36:1765–
1771
133. TODAY Study Group. Retinopathy in youth 
with type 2 diabetes participating in the TODAY 
clinical trial. Diabetes Care 2013;36:1772–1774
134. TODAY Study Group. Lipid and inflammatory 
cardiovascular risk worsens over 3 years in youth 
with type 2 diabetes: the TODAY clinical trial. 
Diabetes Care 2013;36:1758–1764
135. TODAY Study Group. Rapid rise in hyper- 
tension and nephropathy in youth with type 2 
diabetes: the TODAY clinical trial. Diabetes Care 
2013;36:1735–1741
136. Zeitler P, Hirst K, Copeland KC, et al.; 
TODAY Study Group. HbA1c after a short period 
of monotherapy with metformin identifies durable 
glycemic control among adolescents with type 2 
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2015;38:2285–2292
137. Chan CL. Use of continuous glucose moni- 
toring in youth-onset type 2 diabetes. Curr Diab 
Rep 2017;17:66
138. Chesser H, Srinivasan S, Puckett C, Gitelman 
SE, Wong JC. Real-time continuous glucose 
monitoring in adolescents and young adults 
with type 2 diabetes can improve quality of 
life. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2024;18:911–919
139. Copeland KC, Silverstein J, Moore KR, et al.; 
American Academy of Pediatrics. Management 
of newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) in children and adolescents. Pediatrics 
2013;131:364–382
140. Zeitler P, Hirst K, Pyle L, et al. A clinical trial 
to maintain glycemic control in youth with type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med 2012;366:2247–2256
141. RISE Consortium. Impact of insulin and 
metformin versus metformin alone on β-cell 
function in youth with impaired glucose tolerance 
or recently diagnosed type 2 diabetes. Diabetes 
Care 2018;41:1717–1725
142. Tamborlane WV, Barrientos-Pérez M, 
Fainberg U, et al.; Ellipse Trial Investigators. 
Liraglutide in children and adolescents with 
type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:637–646
143. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA 
approves treatment for pediatric patients with 
type 2 diabetes - drug information update. 2021. 
Accessed 21 August 2025. Available from https:// 
content.govdelivery.com/accounts/USFDA/ 
bulletins/2e98d66
144. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA 
approves new treatment for pediatric patients 
with type 2 diabetes. 2019. Accessed 21 August 
2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/news- 
events/press-announcements/fda-approves-new- 
class-medicines-treat-pediatric-type-2-diabetes
145. Tamborlane WV, Bishai R, Geller D, et al. 
Once-weekly exenatide in youth with type 2 
diabetes. Diabetes Care 2022;45:1833–1840
146. Arslanian SA, Hannon T, Zeitler P, et al.; 
AWARD-PEDS Investigators. Once-weekly dulaglutide 
for the treatment of youths with type 2 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2022;387:433–443
147. Kelly AS, Auerbach P, Barrientos-Perez M, 
et al.; NN8022-4180 Trial Investigators. A 
randomized, controlled trial of liraglutide for 
adolescents with obesity. N Engl J Med 2020; 
382:2117–2128
148. Hannon TS, Chao LC, Barrientos-Pérez M, 
et al. Efficacy and safety of tirzepatide in children 
and adolescents with type 2 diabetes (SURPASS- 
PEDS): a randomised, double-blind, placebo- 
controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2025;406: 
1484–1496
149. Laffel LM, Danne T, Klingensmith GJ, et al.; 
DINAMO Study Group. Efficacy and safety of the 
SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin versus placebo and 
the DPP-4 inhibitor linagliptin versus placebo in 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S317 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

young people with type 2 diabetes (DINAMO): a 
multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel 
group, phase 3 trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 
2023;11:169–181
150. Tamborlane WV, Laffel LM, Shehadeh N, et 
al. Efficacy and safety of dapagliflozin in children 
and young adults with type 2 diabetes: a 
prospective, multicentre, randomised, parallel 
group, phase 3 study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 
2022;10:341–350
151. Shehadeh N, Barrett T, Galassetti P, et al. 
Dapagliflozin or saxagliptin in pediatric type 2 
diabetes. NEJM Evid 2023;2:EVIDoa2300210
152. Nadgir U, Ali SR, Gogate J, Shaw W, Antunes 
J, Fonseca S. Treatment with canagliflozin versus 
placebo in children and adolescents with type 2 
diabetes: a randomized clinical trial. Ann Intern 
Med 2025;178:1217–1226
153. Weghuber D, Kelly AS, Arslanian S. Once- 
weekly semaglutide in adolescents with obesity. 
reply. N Engl J Med 2023;388:1146
154. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA 
approves weight management drug for patients 
aged 12 and older. 2021. Accessed 21 August 
2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/ 
drug-safety-and-availability/fda-approves-weight- 
management-drug-patients-aged-12-and-older
155. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA 
approves treatment for chronic weight management 
in pediatric patients aged 12 years and older. 2022. 
Accessed 27 August 2025. Available from https:// 
www.fda.gov/drugs/news-events-human-drugs/fda- 
approves-treatment-chronic-weight-management- 
pediatric-patients-aged-12-years-and-older
156. Beamish AJ, Ryan Harper E, Järvholm K, 
Janson A, Olbers T. Long-term outcomes following 
adolescent metabolic and bariatric surgery. J Clin 
Endocrinol Metab 2023;108:2184–2192
157. Inge TH, Zeller M, Harmon C, et al. Teen- 
Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery: 
methodological features of the first prospective 
multicenter study of adolescent bariatric surgery. 
J Pediatr Surg 2007;42:1969–1971
158. Rubino F, Nathan DM, Eckel RH, et al.; 
Delegates of the 2nd Diabetes Surgery Summit. 
Metabolic surgery in the treatment algorithm for 
type 2 diabetes: a joint statement by international 
diabetes organizations. Diabetes Care 2016;39: 
861–877
159. Torbahn G, Brauchmann J, Axon E, et al. 
Surgery for the treatment of obesity in children 
and adolescents. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 
2022;9:CD011740
160. Michalsky MP, Inge TH, Simmons M, et al.; 
Teen-LABS Consortium. Cardiovascular risk factors 
in severely obese adolescents: the Teen Longitudinal 
Assessment of Bariatric Surgery (Teen-LABS) study. 
JAMA Pediatr 2015;169:438–444
161. Zeinoddini A, Heidari R, Talebpour M. 
Laparoscopic gastric plication in morbidly obese 
adolescents: a prospective study. Surg Obes Relat 
Dis 2014;10:1135–1139
162. Göthberg G, Gronowitz E, Flodmark C-E, et 
al. Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass in 
adolescents with morbid obesity–surgical aspects 
and clinical outcome. Semin Pediatr Surg 2014; 
23:11–16
163. Inge TH, Prigeon RL, Elder DA, et al. Insulin 
sensitivity and β-cell function improve after 
gastric bypass in severely obese adolescents. J 
Pediatr 2015;167:1042–1048.e1 e1041
164. Ryder JR, Jenkins TM, Xie C, et al. Ten-year 
outcomes after bariatric surgery in adolescents. 
N Engl J Med 2024;391:1656–1658
165. Warncke K, Fröhlich-Reiterer EE, Thon A, 
Hofer SE, Wiemann D, Holl RW; German BMBF 
Competence Network for Diabetes Mellitus. 
Polyendocrinopathy in children, adolescents, and 
young adults with type 1 diabetes: a multicenter 
analysis of 28,671 patients from the German/ 
Austrian DPV-Wiss database. Diabetes Care 2010; 
33:2010–2012
166. Nederstigt C, Uitbeijerse BS, Janssen LGM, 
Corssmit EPM, de Koning EJP, Dekkers OM. 
Associated auto-immune disease in type 1 diabetes 
patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Eur J Endocrinol 2019;180:135–144
167. Kozhakhmetova A, Wyatt RC, Caygill C, et 
al. A quarter of patients with type 1 diabetes 
have co-existing non-islet autoimmunity: the 
findings of a UK population-based family study. 
Clin Exp Immunol 2018;192:251–258
168. Hughes JW, Riddlesworth TD, DiMeglio LA, 
Miller KM, Rickels MR, McGill JB; T1D Exchange 
Clinic Network. Autoimmune diseases in children 
and adults with type 1 diabetes from the T1D 
Exchange Clinic Registry. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 
2016;101:4931–4937
169. Kahaly GJ, Hansen MP. Type 1 diabetes 
associated autoimmunity. Autoimmun Rev 2016; 
15:644–648
170. Roldán MB, Alonso M, Barrio R. Thyroid 
autoimmunity in children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Nutr Metab 
1999;12:27–31
171. Shun CB, Donaghue KC, Phelan H, Twigg 
SM, Craig ME. Thyroid autoimmunity in type 1 
diabetes: systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Diabet Med 2014;31:126–135
172. Triolo TM, Armstrong TK, McFann K, et al. 
Additional autoimmune disease found in 33% of 
patients at type 1 diabetes onset. Diabetes Care 
2011;34:1211–1213
173. Kordonouri O, Deiss D, Danne T, Dorow A, 
Bassir C, Grüters-Kieslich A. Predictivity of thyroid 
autoantibodies for the development of thyroid 
disorders in children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes. Diabet Med 2002;19:518–521
174. Dost A, Rohrer TR, Fröhlich-Reiterer E, et 
al.; DPV Initiative and the German Competence 
Network Diabetes Mellitus. Hyperthyroidism in 
276 children and adolescents with type 1 
diabetes from Germany and Austria. Horm Res 
Paediatr 2015;84:190–198
175. Jonsdottir B, Larsson C, Carlsson A, et al.; 
Better Diabetes Diagnosis Study Group. Thyroid 
and islet autoantibodies predict autoimmune 
thyroid disease at type 1 diabetes diagnosis. J 
Clin Endocrinol Metab 2017;102:1277–1285
176. Mohn A, Di Michele S, Di Luzio R, Tumini S, 
Chiarelli F. The effect of subclinical hypothyroidism 
on metabolic control in children and adolescents 
with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Diabet Med 2002; 
19:70–73
177. Denzer C, Karges B, Näke A, et al.; DPV 
Initiative and the BMBF-Competence Network 
Diabetes Mellitus. Subclinical hypothyroidism and 
dyslipidemia in children and adolescents with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus. Eur J Endocrinol 2013; 
168:601–608
178. Holmes GKT. Screening for coeliac disease 
in type 1 diabetes. Arch Dis Child 2002;87: 
495–498
179. Pham-Short A, Donaghue KC, Ambler G, 
Phelan H, Twigg S, Craig ME. Screening for celiac 
disease in type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. 
Pediatrics 2015;136:e170-176–e176
180. Cerutti F, Bruno G, Chiarelli F, Lorini R, 
Meschi F, Sacchetti C; Diabetes Study Group of 
the Italian Society of Pediatric Endocrinology and 
Diabetology. Younger age at onset and sex 
predict celiac disease in children and adolescents 
with type 1 diabetes: an Italian multicenter study. 
Diabetes Care 2004;27:1294–1298
181. Taczanowska A, Schwandt A, Amed S, et al. 
Celiac disease in children with type 1 diabetes 
varies around the world: an international, cross- 
sectional study of 57375 patients from the 
SWEET registry. J Diabetes 2021;13:448–457
182. Simmons JH, Foster NC, Riddlesworth TD, 
et al.; T1D Exchange Clinic Network. Sex- and 
age-dependent effects of celiac disease on growth 
and weight gain in children with type 1 diabetes: 
analysis of the Type 1 Diabetes Exchange Clinic 
Registry. Pediatr Diabetes 2018;19:741–748
183. Margoni D, Chouliaras G, Duscas G, et al. 
Bone health in children with celiac disease 
assessed by dual x-ray absorptiometry: effect of 
gluten-free diet and predictive value of serum 
biochemical indices. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 
2012;54:680–684
184. Mollazadegan K, Kugelberg M, Montgomery 
SM, Sanders DS, Ludvigsson J, Ludvigsson JF. A 
population-based study of the risk of diabetic 
retinopathy in patients with type 1 diabetes and 
celiac disease. Diabetes Care 2013;36:316–321
185. Rubio-Tapia A, Hill ID, Semrad C, et al. 
American College of Gastroenterology guidelines 
update: diagnosis and management of celiac 
disease. Am J Gastroenterol 2023;118:59–76
186. Steck AK, Rewers MJ. Genetics of type 1 
diabetes. Clin Chem 2011;57:176–185
187. Sahin Y. Celiac disease in children: a review 
of the literature. World J Clin Pediatr 2021; 
10:53–71
188. Abid N, McGlone O, Cardwell C, McCallion 
W, Carson D. Clinical and metabolic effects of 
gluten free diet in children with type 1 diabetes 
and coeliac disease. Pediatr Diabetes 2011;12: 
322–325
189. Flynn JT, Kaelber DC, Baker-Smith CM, et 
al.; Subcommittee on Screening and Manage- 
ment of High Blood Pressure in Children. Clinical 
practice guideline for screening and manage- 
ment of high blood pressure in children and 
adolescents. Pediatrics 2017;140:e20171904
190. Marcovecchio ML, Chiesa ST, Bond S, et al.; 
AdDIT Study Group. ACE inhibitors and statins in 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 
2017;377:1733–1745
191. de Ferranti SD, de Boer IH, Fonseca V, et al. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular 
disease: a scientific statement from the American 
Heart Association and American Diabetes Asso- 
ciation. Diabetes Care 2014;37:2843–2863
192. Rodriguez BL, Fujimoto WY, Mayer-Davis EJ, 
et al. Prevalence of cardiovascular disease risk 
factors in U.S. children and adolescents with 
diabetes: the SEARCH for diabetes in youth study. 
Diabetes Care 2006;29:1891–1896
193. Margeirsdottir HD, Larsen JR, Brunborg C, 
Overby NC, Dahl-Jørgensen K; Norwegian Study 
Group for Childhood Diabetes. High prevalence 
of cardiovascular risk factors in children and 
S318 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

adolescents with type 1 diabetes: a population- 
based study. Diabetologia 2008;51:554–561
194. Schwab KO, Doerfer J, Hecker W, et al.; DPV 
Initiative of the German Working Group for 
Pediatric Diabetology. Spectrum and prevalence 
of atherogenic risk factors in 27,358 children, 
adolescents, and young adults with type 1 
diabetes: cross-sectional data from the German 
diabetes documentation and quality manage- 
ment system (DPV). Diabetes Care 2006;29: 
218–225
195. Singh TP, Groehn H, Kazmers A. Vascular 
function and carotid intimal-medial thickness in 
children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. 
J Am Coll Cardiol 2003;41:661–665
196. Haller MJ, Stein J, Shuster J, et al. Peripheral 
artery tonometry demonstrates altered endothelial 
function in children with type 1 diabetes. Pediatr 
Diabetes 2007;8:193–198
197. Urbina EM, Wadwa RP, Davis C, et al. 
Prevalence of increased arterial stiffness in 
children with type 1 diabetes mellitus differs by 
measurement site and sex: the SEARCH for 
Diabetes in Youth Study. J Pediatr 2010;156: 
731–737, 737.e1 e731
198.
Expert Panel on Integrated Guidelines for 
Cardiovascular Health and Risk Reduction in 
Children and Adolescents; National Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Institute. Expert panel on integrated 
guidelines for cardiovascular health and risk 
reduction in children and adolescents: summary 
report. Pediatrics 2011;128(Suppl 5):S213–S256
199. Kershnar AK, Daniels SR, Imperatore G, et 
al. Lipid abnormalities are prevalent in youth 
with type 1 and type 2 diabetes: the SEARCH for 
Diabetes in Youth Study. J Pediatr 2006;149: 
314–319
200. Blaha MJ, Blumenthal RS, Brinton EA, 
Jacobson TA; National Lipid Association Taskforce 
on Non-HDL Cholesterol. The importance of non- 
HDL cholesterol reporting in lipid management. J 
Clin Lipidol 2008;2:267–273
201. Maahs DM, Hermann JM, DuBose SN, et 
al.; T1D Exchange Clinic Network. Contrasting the 
clinical care and outcomes of 2,622 children with 
type 1 diabetes less than 6 years of age in the 
United States T1D Exchange and German/ 
Austrian DPV registries. Diabetologia 2014;57: 
1578–1585
202. Daniels SR, Greer FR; Committee on Nutrition. 
Lipid screening and cardiovascular health in 
childhood. Pediatrics 2008;122:198–208
203. Cadario F, Prodam F, Pasqualicchio S, et al. 
Lipid profile and nutritional intake in children and 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes improve after a 
structured dietician training to a Mediterranean- 
style diet. J Endocrinol Invest 2012;35:160–168
204. Salem MA, AboElAsrar MA, Elbarbary NS, 
ElHilaly RA, Refaat YM. Is exercise a therapeutic 
tool for improvement of cardiovascular risk 
factors in adolescents with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus? A randomised controlled trial. Diabetol 
Metab Syndr 2010;2:47
205. Maahs DM, Dabelea D, D’Agostino RB, Jr, 
et al.; SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study. 
Glucose control predicts 2-year change in lipid 
profile in youth with type 1 diabetes. J Pediatr 
2013;162:101–107.e1 e101
206. Katz ML, Kollman CR, Dougher CE, 
Mubasher M, Laffel LMB. Influence of HbA1c and 
BMI on lipid trajectories in youths and young 
adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 
2017;40:30–37
207. Kavey R-EW, Allada V, Daniels SR, et al.; 
Interdisciplinary Working Group on Quality of 
Care and Outcomes Research. Cardiovascular risk 
reduction in high-risk pediatric patients: a scientific 
statement from the American Heart Association 
Expert Panel on Population and Prevention 
Science; the Councils on Cardiovascular Disease 
in the Young, Epidemiology and Prevention, 
Nutrition, Physical Activity and Metabolism, High 
Blood Pressure Research, Cardiovascular Nursing, 
and the Kidney in Heart Disease; and the 
Interdisciplinary Working Group on Quality of 
Care and Outcomes Research: endorsed by the 
American Academy of Pediatrics. Circulation 2006; 
114:2710–2738
208. McCrindle BW, Urbina EM, Dennison BA, et 
al.; American Heart Association Council on 
Cardiovascular Nursing. Drug therapy of high-risk 
lipid abnormalities in children and adolescents: a 
scientific statement from the American Heart 
Association Atherosclerosis, Hypertension, and 
Obesity in Youth Committee, Council of Cardio- 
vascular Disease in the Young, with the Council 
on Cardiovascular Nursing. Circulation 2007;115: 
1948–1967
209. Luirink IK, Wiegman A, Kusters DM, et al. 
20-Year follow-up of statins in children with 
familial hypercholesterolemia. N Engl J Med 2019; 
381:1547–1556
210. AstraZeneca Canada, Inc. Rosuvastatin 
product monograph, 2011. Accessed 31 August 
2025. Available from https://www.astrazeneca.ca/ 
content/dam/az-ca/downloads/productinformation/ 
crestor-product-monograph-en.pdf
211. Daniels M, DuBose SN, Maahs DM, et al.; 
T1D Exchange Clinic Network. Factors associated 
with microalbuminuria in 7,549 children and 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes in the T1D 
Exchange Clinic Registry. Diabetes Care 2013;36: 
2639–2645
212. Schwartz GJ, Work DF. Measurement and 
estimation of GFR in children and adolescents. 
Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2009;4:1832–1843
213. Inker LA, Schmid CH, Tighiouart H, et al.; 
CKD-EPI Investigators. Estimating glomerular 
filtration rate from serum creatinine and cystatin 
C. N Engl J Med 2012;367:20–29
214. Cho YH, Craig ME, Hing S, et al. Micro- 
vascular complications assessment in adolescents 
with 2- to 5-yr duration of type 1 diabetes from 
1990 to 2006. Pediatr Diabetes 2011;12:682–689
215. Scanlon PH, Stratton IM, Bachmann MO, 
Jones C, Leese GP; Four Nations Diabetic Retino- 
pathy Screening Study Group. Risk of diabetic 
retinopathy at first screen in children at 12 and 
13 years of age. Diabet Med 2016;33:1655–1658
216. Beauchamp G, Boyle CT, Tamborlane WV, 
et al.; T1D Exchange Clinic Network. Treatable 
diabetic retinopathy is extremely rare among 
pediatric T1D Exchange Clinic Registry participants. 
Diabetes Care 2016;39:e218–e219
217. Nathan DM, Bebu I, Hainsworth D, et al.; 
DCCT/EDIC Research Group. Frequency of evidence- 
based screening for retinopathy in type 1 diabetes. 
N Engl J Med 2017;376:1507–1516
218. Gubitosi-Klug RA, Bebu I, White NH, et al.; 
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT)/ 
Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and 
Complications (EDIC) Research Group. Screening 
eye exams in youth with type 1 diabetes under 
18 years of age: once may be enough? Pediatr 
Diabetes 2019;20:743–749
219. Wolf RM, Channa R, Liu TYA, et al. 
Autonomous artificial intelligence increases 
screening and follow-up for diabetic retinopathy 
in youth: the ACCESS randomized control trial. 
Nat Commun 2024;15:421
220. Jaiswal M, Divers J, Dabelea D, et al. 
Prevalence of and risk factors for diabetic 
peripheral neuropathy in youth with type 1 and 
type 2 diabetes: SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth 
Study. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1226–1232
221. Pop-Busui R, Boulton AJM, Feldman EL, et 
al. Diabetic neuropathy: a position statement by 
the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes 
Care 2017;40:136–154
222. Dabelea D, Stafford JM, Mayer-Davis EJ, et 
al.; SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Research 
Group. Association of type 1 diabetes vs type 2 
diabetes diagnosed during childhood and adole- 
scence with complications during teenage years 
and young adulthood. JAMA 2017;317:825–835
223. Song SH, Hardisty CA. Early onset type 2 
diabetes mellitus: a harbinger for complications 
in later years–clinical observation from a secondary 
care cohort. QJM 2009;102:799–806
224. Shah AS, Barrientos-Pérez M, Chang N, et 
al. ISPAD clinical practice consensus guidelines 
2024: type 2 diabetes in children and adolescents. 
Horm Res Paediatr 2024;97:555–583
225. Shah RD, Braffett BH, Tryggestad JB, et al.; 
TODAY Study Group. Cardiovascular risk factor 
progression in adolescents and young adults with 
youth-onset type 2 diabetes. J Diabetes Compli- 
cations 2022;36:108123
226. Creo A, Sriram S, Vaughan LE, Weaver AL, 
Lteif A, Kumar S. Risk of substance use disorders 
among adolescents and emerging adults with 
type 1 diabetes: a population-based cohort 
study. Pediatr Diabetes 2021;22:1143–1149
227. Foxon F, Selya AS. Electronic cigarettes, 
nicotine use trends and use initiation ages 
among US adolescents from 1999 to 2018. 
Addiction 2020;115:2369–2378
228. Veliz PT, McCabe SE, Evans-Polce RJ, Boyd 
CJ. Assessing how the history of e-cigarette and 
cigarette use are associated with the develop- 
mental course of marijuana use in a sample of 
United States adolescents. Drug Alcohol Depend 
2020;216:108308
229. Tetzschner R, Nørgaard K, Ranjan A. Effects 
of alcohol on plasma glucose and prevention of 
alcohol-induced hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes- 
a systematic review with GRADE. Diabetes Metab 
Res Rev 2018;34:e2965
230. Hölzen L, Schultes B, Meyhöfer SM, Meyhöfer 
S. Hypoglycemia unawareness-a review on patho- 
physiology and clinical implications. Biomedicines 
2024;12:391
231. Weitzman ER, Wisk LE, Minegishi M, et al. 
Effects of a patient-centered intervention to 
reduce alcohol use among youth with chronic 
medical conditions. J Adolesc Health 2022;71: 
S24–S33
232. Hanna KM, Stupiansky NW, Weaver MT, 
Slaven JE, Stump TE. Alcohol use trajectories 
after high school graduation among emerging 
adults with type 1 diabetes. J Adolesc Health 
2014;55:201–208
233. Kinney GL, Akturk HK, Taylor DD, Foster NC, 
Shah VN. Cannabis use is associated with increased 
risk for diabetic ketoacidosis in adults with type 1 
diabetesjournals.org/care                                                                                                                                                     
Children and Adolescents
S319 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026

diabetes: findings from the T1D Exchange Clinic 
Registry. Diabetes Care 2020;43:247–249
234. Akturk HK, Taylor DD, Camsari UM, Rewers 
A, Kinney GL, Shah VN. Association between 
cannabis use and risk for diabetic ketoacidosis in 
adults with type 1 diabetes. JAMA Intern Med 
2019;179:115–118
235. Pancer J, Dasgupta K. Effects of cannabis 
use in youth and young adults with type 1 
diabetes: the highs, the lows, the don’t knows. 
Can J Diabetes 2020;44:121–127
236. Akturk HK, Snell-Bergeon J, Kinney GL, 
Champakanath A, Monte A, Shah VN. Differentia- 
ting diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperglycemic 
ketosis due to cannabis hyperemesis syndrome in 
adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2022; 
45:481–483
237. Arnett JJ. Emerging adulthood. A theory of 
development from the late teens through the 
twenties. Am Psychol 2000;55:469–480
238. Peters A, Laffel L; American Diabetes 
Association Transitions Working Group. Diabetes 
care for emerging adults: recommendations for 
transition from pediatric to adult diabetes care 
systems: a position statement of the American 
Diabetes Association, with representation by the 
American College of Osteopathic Family Physicians, 
the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American 
Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, the 
American Osteopathic Association, the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Children with 
Diabetes, The Endocrine Society, the International 
Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes, 
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International, 
the National Diabetes Education Program, and the 
Pediatric Endocrine Society (formerly Lawson Wilkins 
Pediatric Endocrine Society). Diabetes Care 2011; 
34:2477–2485
239. Agarwal S, Raymond JK, Isom S, et al. Transfer 
from paediatric to adult care for young adults with 
type 2 diabetes: the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth 
Study. Diabet Med 2018;35:504–512
240. Mays JA, Jackson KL, Derby TA, et al. An 
evaluation of recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis, 
fragmentation of care, and mortality across 
Chicago, Illinois. Diabetes Care 2016;39:1671–1676
241. Lotstein DS, Seid M, Klingensmith G, et al.; 
SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study Group. 
Transition from pediatric to adult care for youth 
diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in adolescence. 
Pediatrics 2013;131:e1062–e1070
242. Lyons SK, Becker DJ, Helgeson VS. Transfer 
from pediatric to adult health care: effects on 
diabetes outcomes. Pediatr Diabetes 2014;15:10–17
243. D’Amico RP, Pian TM, Buschur EO. 
Transition from pediatric to adult care for indi- 
viduals with type 1 diabetes: opportunities and 
challenges. Endocr Pract 2023;29:279–285
244. Lal RA, Maahs DM, Dosiou C, Aye T, Basina 
M. The guided transfer of care improves adult 
clinic show rate. Endocr Pract 2020;26:508–513
245. Xie LF, Housni A, Nakhla M, et al. 
Adaptation of an adult web application for type 1 
diabetes self-management to youth using the 
behavior change wheel to tailor the needs of 
health care transition: qualitative interview study. 
JMIR Diabetes 2023;8:e42564
246. Butalia S, Crawford SG, McGuire KA, Dyjur 
DK, Mercer JR, Pacaud D. Improved transition to 
adult care in youth with type 1 diabetes: a 
pragmatic clinical trial. Diabetologia 2021;64: 
758–766
247. Spaic T, Robinson T, Goldbloom E, et al.; 
JDRF Canadian Clinical Trial CCTN1102 Study 
Group. Closing the gap: results of the multicenter 
canadian randomized controlled trial of structured 
transition in young adults with type 1 diabetes. 
Diabetes Care 2019;42:1018–1026
248. White M, O’Connell MA, Cameron FJ. Clinic 
attendance and disengagement of young adults 
with type 1 diabetes after transition of care from 
paediatric to adult services (TrACeD): a randomised, 
open-label, controlled trial. Lancet Child Adolesc 
Health 2017;1:274–283
249. Sequeira PA, Pyatak EA, Weigensberg MJ, 
et al. Let’s Empower and Prepare (LEAP): 
evaluation of a structured transition program 
for young adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes 
Care 2015;38:1412–1419
250. Monaghan M, Baumann K. Type 1 diabetes: 
addressing the transition from pediatric to adult- 
oriented health care. Res Rep Endocr Disord 
2016;6:31–40
251. Carreon SA, Duran B, Tang TS, et al. Here 
for you: a review of social support research in 
young adults with diabetes. Diabetes Spectr 
2021;34:363–370
S320 
Children and Adolescents                                                                                 
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 
Downloaded from http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S297/848841/dc26s014.pdf by guest on 25 March 2026
